50 1382-1386 ZH: 大约六年前，我们转而问。 特别幸福的人和其他人有什么区别？ 结果是只有一个区别。 他们不比别人更笃信宗教，身材不比别人好，他们不比别人富裕，也不比别人好看，他们的生活中并不是成功比挫折多。 他们唯一的区别是非常善于和人相处。
50 1382-1386 EN: Around six years ago, we turned to ask. What is the difference between very happy people and the others? It turns out there is only one difference. They are not more religious, they are not in better shape, they are not richer, they are not better looking, they do not have more success than failure in life. The only difference is that they are very good at getting along with people.
51 1392-1395 ZH: 从佛祖到托尼•罗宾斯（美国潜能激励大师），人们在过去一个世纪里。从各个角度已经提出过大约120种，据说能让人更加幸福的干预措施。 我们已经可以操作其中的许多种，我们可以进行随机指派，研究这些干预措施的有效性。 也就是说，究竟哪些措施真的可以让人们持久提升幸福感？
51 1392-1395 EN: The work spans across one century, from the Buddha to Tony Robbins (a master on potential invoking in America). Around 120 intervention ways to make people happier have been proposed from various aspects. We can already operate on many of them, and we can randomly assign and explore the effectiveness of these interventions. What measures can really improve people's happiness in the long run? 
52 1399-1404 ZH: 我认为有三种不同的幸福人生，之所以说它们不同，是因为他们来自于不同的干预措施，人们可以拥有其中一种而不拥有另一种。 第一种幸福生活是快乐的人生。 在这样的生活里你的积极情感多得不能再多了，你增强这些感情的技能也多的不能再多了。 第二种是参与的人生，你努力地工作、带孩子、恋爱、休闲，时间为你停止。 亚里士多德谈过的就是这种人生。 第三种是有意义的人生。
52 1399-1404 EN: I think there are three kinds of happy life caused by different intervention measures, and people can have one of them without another. The first one is a happy life. In such life, you have too much positive emotion, and too many skills to strengthen it. The second is a life of participation, where you work hard, raise your children, fall in love, relax, and time stops for you. This is the kind of life that Aristotle talked about. The third is a meaningful life.
53 1406-1412 ZH: 第一种人生是愉快的人生，你所拥有的快乐多得不能再多了，你的积极情绪多得不能再多了，你学习快乐的技巧，在时间和空间里放大快乐。 但是快乐的人生有三个缺点，这也就是积极心理学区别于“快乐心理学”的地方。 第一个缺点是，你所体会到的积极情绪有50%是遗传的，这种情绪不容易更改。 所以马修和我还有其他人，所使用的让人们有更多积极情绪的方法，有15%到20%都是在遗传范围内让人们发掘潜质的小把戏。 第二个缺点是人们很快就能适应积极情绪。 就像法式香草冰淇凌，第一口是100%的美味，但到了第六口，就没有味道了。 第三点，正如我说过的，积极情绪很难改变。
53 1406-1412 EN: The first kind of life is a happy life, you have too much happiness and too many positive emotions, and you learn the skills to be happy, and use them to magnify the happiness in time and space. But there are three downsides to a happy life, and this is where positive psychology differs from "happiness psychology". The first downside is that 50% of the positive emotions you experience are genetic and cannot be easily changed. So 15 to 20 percent of the methods that Matthew and I and others use to get people to have more positive emotions are little tricks that get people to their potential within the genetic spectrum. The second downside is that people quickly adapt to positve emotions. It's like French vanilla ice cream, the first bite is 100% delicious, but by the sixth bite, the taste is gone. Third, as I said, positive emotions are hard to change.
54 1414-1420 ZH: 我得跟你们说说我的朋友兰，让你们知道积极心理学不仅是关于积极情绪，不仅是要创造快乐。 还没到30岁，兰就在生活三个方面中的两个取得了巨大成功，第一个是工作方面。 不到20岁他就是个期权交易家。 不到25岁他就成了百万富翁，同时是一家期权交易公司的经理。 第二个是休闲方面：他是全国桥牌比赛冠军。 但是在第三个方面，爱情，兰却彻底失败。 原因就在于他对人非常冷淡（像一条冷冰冰的鱼）。
54 1414-1420 EN: I need to talk with you about my friend Len, to let you know that positive psychology is not only about positive emotions or creating happiness. Before reaching 30 years old, Lan has achieved great success in two of the three areas of life, the first being work. Before he was 20 he was an options trader. Before he was 25, he was a millionaire and manager of an options trading firm. The second is recreational: he was a national bridge champion. But Len totally failed in the third, which is love. The reason being he was too cold to people (like a iced fish).
55 1441-1449 ZH: 举一个例子：我曾经研究过一个在商店里工作的装袋工。 她很不喜欢这份工作。 她同时在读大学。 她最大的优势是善于交际，所以她很努力地，让每个客人见到她就一整天心情好。 很显然她失败了。 但是她随后用在工作上尽量多地重新利用她最大的优势。 你从中得到的并不是微笑。 你看起来不像黛比·雷诺斯。 你不经常咯咯地笑，你得到的是更加投入的精神。
55 1441-1449 EN: Here's an example: I once studied a bagger who worked in a store. She did not like this job. She was in college at the same time. Her biggest advantage is being sociable, so she tried to make the customers who saw her happy for the whole day. Obviously, she failed. But then she repurposed as much of her greatest strengths as she could at work. It is not smiling you get. You don't look like Debbie Reynolds. You don't giggle as often, what you get is a more engaged spirit.
56 1457-1462 ZH: 我们做很严密的测试。 就像我们测验哪些药物有效一样。 我们随机分配，有些人分在服用安慰剂的控制组，我们用各种干预措施做长期研究。 想找到有效果的干预措施，我们向被测试者介绍什么是快乐的生活，如何在生活中找到更多快乐，你的任务之一是利用你的细心和风趣，来设计美好的一天。 把下个星期六空出来，给自己设计美好的一天，用风趣和细心增强这些快乐。 我们可以证明，如此快乐感真的提升了。
56 1457-1462 EN: We did very solid tests. It is like testing the effectiveness of medicine. We randomly assign people, some people in a placebo control group, and we do long-term studies with various interventions. To explore effective intervention, we introduce to subjects what is a happyu life, how to find more happiness in life, one of your tasks is to use your thoughtfulness and wit to design a good day. Set aside next Saturday to design a beautiful day for yourself, enhancing these pleasures with wit and care. We can attest that the a sense of well-being really improves with those practice.
57 1463-1470 ZH: 另一项干预措施是感恩访问，现在如果你愿意，请跟着我做。 闭上眼睛。 我要你记起一个曾经做过很重要的事情，一个往好的方向改变了你一生，而你从来没有正式感谢过的人。 必须是个还健在的人。 现在，好的，睁开眼睛。 我希望你们每个人都找到了这么一个人。 你在完成感恩访问这个任务的时候，得给那个人写一封300字的感谢信，给他们打电话，跟他们说你要拜访他们，不要说为什么，登门就行了，然后你读感谢信给他们听——每个人在这种情况下都会掉眼泪。 一个星期之后，一个月之后，三个月之后，我们再进行测试，发现这些人变得更开心、不那么抑郁了。
57 1463-1470 EN: Another intervention is gratitude visit, now if you will, please follow me. Close your eyes. I need you recall someone who did a very important thing which changes your life in a positive direction, but you did not formally thank. It must be someone who is still alive. Okay, now open your eyes. I hope everyone finds such a person. To complete this gratitude visit task, write a 300-word thank letter, and call them to say you are paying a visit, but don't say why, just visit the person, then you read the letter -- everyone would sweep in such a scenario. After a week, a month, or three months, we test again, and find these people to be happier and less depressed.
58 1471-1477 ZH: 另一个例子是优势约会，我们找来一对对伴侣，让他们在优势测试中明确自己最大的优势，然后我们为他们设计一个双方都能利用自己优势的夜晚，我们发现这样可以增进他们的关系。 “趣味对慈善”也是一种方法。 这种方法对在座各位不大适用，因为你们中的很多人已经投身慈善了。 不过，我教的本科生和我的测试对象还不了解这其中的奥妙，于是我让他们做些帮助他人的事，再做些有趣的事，进行比较。 你会发现，当你做有趣的事的时候 快乐很快消退。 当你慈善地帮助别人的时候，快乐的感觉长久不退。 这些就是积极干预的例子。
58 1471-1477 EN: Another example is advantage dating. We found a couple, and let them confirm their biggest advantage in the advantage testing, then we design a night where both can utilize their advantage for them, we found this improves their relationship. "Fun vs Charity" is also an approach. This approach will not work well for you here because many of you are already involved in philanthropy. However, the undergrads I teach and my test subjects don't yet understand how this works, so I ask them to do something that helps others, and something interesting, to compare. You'll find that when you're doing something fun, the joy wears off quickly. When you help others charitably, the joyful feeling lasts much longer. These are examples of positive intervention. 
59 1481-1488 ZH: 我们在15个副本里研究了几千个人，我们想知道，对快乐的追求，对积极情绪、快乐生活的追求，对参与的追求、对忘记时间的状态的追求，对人生意义的追求，在何种程度上影响我们对人生的满意度？ 结果出人意料。 研究显示，对快乐的追求基本上不影响我们对人生的满意度。 对意义的追求影响最大。 对参与的追求影响也很大。 如果你已经到达了参与和有意义的状态，那么快乐就可以给你的人生锦上添花。 也就是说如果三者都有，完整的人生超过各个部分的总和。 相反地，如果这三者你都没有，生活就比各个部分的总和还要空虚。
59 1481-1488 EN: We studied thousands of people in 15 replicas, and we wanted to know that the pursuit of happiness, the pursuit of positive emotions, the pursuit of joyful life, the pursuit of participation, the pursuit of the state of forgetting time, and the pursuit of meaning in life, to what extent does it affect our satisfaction with life? The outcome was unexpected. Research shows that the pursuit of happiness has little effect on our satisfaction with life. The search for meaning has the greatest impact. The pursuit of participation also has a strong impact. If you've reached a state of engagement and meaning, being happy can add to your life. That is to say, if all three are present, the complete life is more than the sum of its parts. In contrast, if you don't have all three, life is emptier than the sum of its parts.
60 1489-1492 ZH: 我们现在要问的是，身体健康、患病率，寿命、生产力等，是否也存在同样的现象？ 比如在一家公司里，生产力是积极情绪、奋斗和意义的共同作用吗？ 健康是积极情绪、快乐，和意义的共同作用吗？ 我们有理由相信两者的答案可能都是肯定的。
60 1489-1492 EN: Now we ask, does the same phenomenon exist in physical health, sick rate, life time, productivity, and so on? For instance in a company, is productivity affected joinly by positive emotions, struggling, and meaning? Is health affected joinly by positive emotions, happiness, and meaning? We have reasons to believe the answers to both questions are yes.
61 1499-1506 ZH: 30年前我刚开始从医的时候 我想如果我有能力给人减少抑郁，减少焦虑，减少愤怒，那我就让他们快乐了。 事实并非如此，最佳疗效只能是让病人归零。 但他们内心空虚。 其实快乐的技能、快乐生活的技能，参与的技能、找到意义的技能，和减少痛苦的技能是不一样的。 我相信，同样的情况，也存在于科技、娱乐和设计上。 也就是说，这三种动力都能用来增加人们的幸福感和积极情绪，人们也确实在这样使用它们。 但是如果你像我一样分解快乐，你会发现快乐不只是积极情绪——那是不够的—— 快乐还包括生活的心流以及人生的意义。 正如劳拉莉告诉我们的 设计、娱乐和科技也可以用来增强人生的意义和参与。
61 1499-1506 EN: When we begun to treat patients 30 years ago, I thought if I could decrease people's depression, anxiety, or anger, I made them happy. But that is not the truth, the best treatment can only make patients disappear. But their hearts are hollow. In fact, the skills for happiness, participation, finding meanings, are different from the skills to ease pain. I believe the same situation happens to technology, entertainment, or design. That is, all three drives can be used to increase people's happiness and positive emotions, and people do use them in this way. But if you break down happiness like I did, you'll see that happiness isn't just about positive emotions -- that's not enough -- it's about the flow of life and the meaning of life. As Laura Lee tells us, design, entertainment, and technology can also be used to enhance meaning and engagement in life.
62 1518-1522 ZH: 事实是：城市能带给人更多的自由，在文艺复兴时期德国人的看法，现在人们涌向上海那样的城市，但大多数搬到城市的人都是住进了贫民区。 他们不是被贫困所迫而住到那样的地方。 他们正在以最快的速度摆脱贫困呢。 他们是城市的主要建筑者，甚至可以说是城市的主要设计师。 他们所使用的基础设施都是自己搞起来的，过的也是非常丰富的都市生活。
62 1518-1522 EN: The truth: Cities give people more freedom, which is the German perception During the Renaissance, now people surge to cities like Shanghai, but most people who moved to cities ended up in the poor area. They were not forced to live there by poverty. They are getting out of poverty as fast as they can. They are the main builders of the city, and can even be said to be the main designers of the city. The infrastructure they use is built by themselves, and they live a very rich urban life.
63 1547-1556 ZH: 书籍的起源固然很重要。 让我们看看谷登堡版圣经吧，这会使得谈论书籍起源更有趣些。 大家看，一本1455年的谷登堡版圣经，多么轻便。 而谷登堡版圣经和它的印刷技术之所以有趣却不在于这本书。 想想看，这本书的产生不是由于阅读的需要。 在1455年，还没人识字呢。 那么印刷术是怎么成功的？ 这是最初的谷登堡版圣经的一页。 所以你现在看见的正是历史上最初应用活字凸版应刷的书籍之一，那是550年前的事了。 我们正活在书的最末一页，电子印刷术将会毫无疑问地取代活字凸版的年代。
63 1547-1556 EN: The origin of books are obviously important. Let's look at Gutenberg's Bible, which will make talking about the origin of books a bit more interesting. You see, a 1455 Gutenberg version of the Bible, it is really light. What makes the Gutenberg Bible and its printing techniques interesting is not the book. Come to think of it, this book wasn't born out of a need to read it. In 1455, no one could read. So how did printing techniques succeed? This is a page from the original Gutenberg Bible. So what you're looking at is one of the first books in history to be printed with movable type, that was 550 years ago. We are living on the last page of the book, and electronic printing will undoubtedly replace the era of letterpress.
64 1558-1564 ZH: 在15世纪50年代，天主教会需要用钱，因此他们印刷赎罪券，赎罪券事实上是手写在纸上的豁免权。 它们在欧洲大陆上漫天飞舞，被成百上千地出售。 它们可以帮助你早日涤罪。 在印刷机被发明之后 教会发现他们可以印刷赎罪券，也就相当于印刷纸币。 于是在1455年整个欧洲西部开始购买印刷机，来印刷成百上千，而后成千上万，而后数不胜数的单页的小纸片，声称能将你从地狱中引领入天堂。 这就是印刷机成功的原因，也是马丁路德，在教堂张贴他的90条论纲的起因，他抱怨天主教会通过印刷赎罪券并大肆在欧洲西部的每个市镇乡村疯狂售卖。 因此，女士们先生们，印刷机是被复印赎罪券的需求推动的，完全与阅读无关。
64 1558-1564 EN: In the 1450s, the Catholic Church needed money, so they printed indulgences, which were actually immunity written on paper by hand. They flew all over the Europe continent and are sold in hundreds. They could help you get cleansed sooner. After the printing press was invented, the church discovered that they could print indulgences, which is the equivalent of paper money. So in 1455 all over western Europe began to buy printing presses to print hundreds, then thousands, and then countless little single-page pieces of paper that claimed to lead you from hell to heaven. That's why the printing press was successful, and that's why Martin Luther, posting his 90 theses in churches, complained that the Catholic Church was printing indulgences and selling them like crazy in every town and country in western Europe. So, ladies and gentlemen, the printing press was driven by the need to copy indulgences, not at all by reading.
65 1593-1600 ZH: 例如，我们看一下，这个DNA分子模型。 我们都从没见过，但我们学过，所以知道它的存在和组成。 让我们也来看看二战时期纳粹党的恩尼格玛密电码机，这是一个编码和解码的机器。 现在你可能要问，这二者有什么关系呢？ 嗯，这个是生命的密码，这个是死亡的密码。 这两个分子，编码和解码。 而看看他们，你将会看见一台机器和一个分子。 但如果你以新的方式去看待他们 你将会发现事实上他们是有联系的。
65 1593-1600 EN: For example, let's look at this DNA molecular model. We've all never seen it, but we've learned it, so we know it exists and what it's made of. Let's also look at the Enigma machine of the Nazi Party during World War II, which was an encoding and decoding machine. Now you may be asking, what is the relationship between the two? Well, this is the code of life, and this is the code of death. The two molecules, encoding and decoding. And look at them, and you will see a machine and a molecule. But if you look at them in a new way, you'll see that they're actually connected.
66 1602-1606 ZH: 这是一个人脑模型，是吧？ 这很稀有，因为我们不总能看见人脑。 我们通常看到头骨。但它就在这儿了。 都是由于想象，一切我们所想，所感，都来自于人脑。 而一旦我们在头脑中创造了新的想法，以新的方式塑造我们的头脑，它绝不会回到原来的样子的。
66 1602-1606 EN: This is a model of a human brain, right? This is very rare, because we do not always see the brain. We usually see the skull. But it is here. It is all due to imagination, everything we think and feel are from the brain. Once we have new thoughts in the brain, or mould it in a new way, it will not return to its original form.
67 1607-1613 ZH: 我举一个简单的例子。 我们想到网络的时候，我们想到的是网络上传播的信息。 我们从不会想到那些潜在的联系。 我带来了一块煤 在这，一块煤。 那么一块煤与网络有什么联系呢？ 你看，网络需要煤产生的能量，来使每兆字节的信息在网络上传播。 所以每当你下载了一个文件，每兆字节都是一块煤。
67 1607-1613 EN: Here is a simple example. When we think of the internet, we think of the information flowing online. We never think about the implicit connections. I brought a piece of coal here, a piece of coal. So what does a piece of coal have to do with the network? You see, the web needs the energy generated by coal to power every megabyte of information that travels over the web. So every time you download a file, every megabyte is a piece of coal.
68 1621-1626 ZH: 我想起了卡伦•阿姆斯特朗的精彩演讲， 他提到真正被理解的宗教， 并非关于教义，而是关系行为。 对于乐观主义，也许我们应有同样的说法。 我们怎敢乐观？ 乐观主义有时被描绘为一种信念，一种智识上的心境。 但是像圣雄甘地的名言所说的， “你必须成为你愿意看到的变化。”。 所以，我们试图以乐观心境期待的结果 并非由信念本身就能创造出来， 除非这种信念， 能带来新的行为模式。但是“行为”这个词， 我想，在这个语境下也经常被误解。
68 1621-1626 EN: I'm reminded of Karen Armstrong's amazing talk, where he said that religion, when truly understood, is not about doctrine but about relational behavior. Perhaps we should say the same about optimism. How dare we be optimistic? Optimism is sometimes described as a belief, an intellectual state of mind. But as Mahatma Gandhi famously said, "You have to be the change you want to see.". So the results that we try to hope for with optimism are not created by belief itself, unless that belief leads to new behavioral patterns. But i think the word "behaviour" is also often misunderstood in this context.
69 1647-1650 ZH: 这是上个秋季发生的变化， 这些变化真的让研究人员们感到焦虑。 北极冰盖的地理面积，虽然看起来不太吻合， 但实际上正好等于美国本土的面积，减去亚利桑那州的大小。 在2005年冰盖消失的面积， 和密西西比以东的所有州面积总和一样大。 去年秋季冰盖消失的面积，大约和这个同量。冰盖在冬季恢复了一些， 但此时形成的不是永久型冰盖，而是薄的冰层， 非常脆弱。剩下的冰盖可能在至少五年内的夏季全部消失。
69 1647-1650 EN: This is the change last autumn, which really worries researchers. The geographic size of the Arctic ice sheet, although it may not seem to fit, is actually exactly the size of the continental United States minus the size of Arizona. In 2005 the ice sheet lost as much area as all the states east of the Mississippi combined. About the same amount was lost by the ice sheet last fall. The ice sheet recovers somewhat during the winter, but instead of a permanent ice sheet, it forms a thin layer of ice that is very fragile. The remaining ice sheets could all disappear in the summers of at least five years.
70 1666-1669 ZH: 现在，好消息是，百分之六十八的美国人相信人类活动应该为全球变暖负责。 百分之六十九的人相信，地球正在显著地变暖。进步已经在发生了， 但要点是，当做一个清单来列举要面临的挑战时，全球变暖仍然是在接近清单的最低端。 缺少的是——紧迫感。 如果你认同事实方面的分析， 却没有感觉到紧迫感， 那你在想什么呢？ 我领导的“气候保护联盟” 与CurrentTV合作做了一个公益活动， 我们主办了世界性的广告大赛，主题是如何宣传紧迫感。
70 1666-1669 EN: Now, good news, 68 percent of Americans believe humans should be responsible for global warming. 69 percent of people believe that the earth is becoming warmer significantly. The progress is happening, but the point is, if we make a list for the upcoming challenges, global warming is still near the bottom of it. The sense of urgency is lacked. If you agree with the factual analysis but don't feel a sense of urgency, what are you thinking? The "Climate Protection Alliance" I lead cooperated with CurrentTV to do a public welfare activity. We hosted a worldwide advertising contest with the theme of how to promote a sense of urgency.
71 1698-1701 ZH: 仅有的两个没有批准京都议定书的国家 ——现在只有一个。不久前澳大利亚举行了选举。 也有了一场运动， 电视、互联网和广播广告都参与进来，来提高澳洲民众对气候变化的紧迫感的认识。 我们培训了250人来做这个幻灯片演讲， 传播到了澳大利亚的每一个小镇、村庄和城市。 很多其它的因素也有贡献， 新首相宣布他的首要措施是改变澳大利亚对京都议定书的立场，他的确做到了。澳洲清醒了， 部分是因为他们经历的恐怖的干旱。
71 1698-1701 EN: Only two countries have not ratified the Kyoto Protocol -- now only one. Elections were held in Australia not long ago. There has also been a campaign, with television, internet and radio advertising involved, to raise awareness among Australians of the urgency of climate change. We trained 250 people to do this slide presentation, and it propagated to every town, village and city in Australia. Many other factors also contributed, and the new Prime Minister announced that his first move was to change Australia's position on the Kyoto Protocol, which he indeed did. Australia woke up, partly because of the horrific drought they've been through.
72 1712-1716 ZH: 过去曾有英雄一代， 他们给地球带来了民主。 另外一代结束了奴隶制；还有一代给予了妇女投票权。 我们能做到这些。不要告诉我我们没有能力去做。 如果我们有我们在伊拉克战争中一周消耗的金钱， 我们就足以着手解决气候危机了。 我们有能力去做！
72 1712-1716 EN: There was a generation of heroes in the past who brought democracy to Earth. Another generation ended slavery; Another gave women the right to vote. We can do this. Don't tell me we are not able to do it. If we had as much money as we spent a week in the Iraq War, we would have enough to start solving the climate crisis. We are capable of doing it!
73 1751-1754 ZH: 大家有些人可能知道一句古老的非洲谚语， 谚语说，“如果你想走得快，要独行； 如果你想走得远，结伙而行。”我们必须走得快而远， 所以我们必须改变我们的意识。改变我们的信奉。一种新的危机感。 和新认识——我们具有殊荣来应对这个挑战！
73 1751-1754 EN: Some of you may know an old African proverb that says, "If you want to go fast, go alone; If you want to go far, go with friends." We must go fast and go far, so we must change our consciousness. Change what we believe. A new sense of crisis. And new understandings -- we are privileged to take on this challenge!
74 1774-1780 ZH: 举个例子，这是Herbert和他的祖母。 当我第一次看到他时，他坐在他祖母的大腿上。 他因父母双双死于艾滋而成为孤儿，他的祖母照顾他直到他也同样死于艾滋。 他喜欢坐在她的大腿上，因为他说躺在床上会觉得很痛。 当祖母起身去泡茶时，她把Herbert放在我的大腿上，我从来没有抱过这么瘦弱的孩子。 在我走之前， 我问他是否需要些什么。 我以为他会想要玩具、糖果什么的，但他想要的是拖鞋，因为他说他的脚会冷。
74 1774-1780 EN: For example, this is Herbert and his grandmother. When I first saw him, he was sitting on his grandmother's thigh. He became orphan because both of his parents died of AIDS, and his grandmother cared for him until he too died of AIDS. He liked to sit on her lap because he said it hurts lying in bed. When the grandmother got up to make tea, she put Herbert on my lap. I had never held such a thin child. Before I left, I asked him if he needed anything. I thought he would want toys, candy or something, but he wanted slippers because he said his feet would be cold. 
75 1781-1785 ZH: 这是Joyce，一个21岁女孩的照片。 一个感染了艾滋的单亲妈妈。 我在她生下宝贝女儿Lssa的前、后为她拍照。 当我上周走在曼哈顿的拉法叶大街时，接到一个我不认识女人的电话，她跟我说年仅23岁的Joyce去世了。 现在是Joyce的妈妈在照看她的女儿，像很多因传染艾滋病而变成孤儿的津巴布韦儿童一样。
75 1781-1785 EN: This is a picture of Joyce, a 21-year-old girl. A single mother infected with AIDS. I took pictures of her before and after she gave birth to her baby girl, Lssa. As I was walking down Lafayette Avenue in Manhattan last week, I got a call from a woman I didn't know who told me that Joyce, who was only 23, had passed away. Now Joyce's mother is looking after her daughter, like many Zimbabwean children orphaned by AIDS.
76 1798-1802 ZH: 改变基因的一个方法是创造出新的基因， 就像克雷格.文特尔的优美结论所展示的那样； 而还有一个方法则是改进我们的生活习惯。 事实上我们发现，后者所涉及的改动能够较快地带来巨大的成效， 使得我们不用望断秋水般等待这些措施见效。 当你的饮食更加健康，懂得处理与释放压力，坚持锻炼，并且付出爱心的时候， 你的大脑会得到更多的供血与供氧。 不仅如此，你的大脑在体积上也会有所增长。
76 1798-1802 EN: One way to alter genes is to create new ones, as shown in Craig Venter's elegant conclusion; Another way is to improve our living habits. In fact, we found that the latter involves changes that bring huge improvement relatively quickly, without us having to wait for them to bear fruit. When you eat healthier, know how to manage and release stress, keep exercising, and give love, your brain will get more blood and oxygen supply. Not only that, but your brain will also increase in size.
77 1811-1816 ZH: 当你改进你的生活习惯的时候，皮肤的供血会更加充足， 这可以起到延缓衰老的效果，因为皮肤不那么容易起皱纹了。 你的心脏供血量也会增大，我们的研究指出，这甚至可以阻止心脏病的发作。 大家可以看到，幻灯片左上角显示的是被阻塞了的动脉， 而经过一年的健康生活以后，动脉的阻塞程度明显降低。 我们再来看左下角这张心脏的断层显像， 蓝色部分表示没有血液流通。 同样也是一年以后，我们看到大块的橙色与白色，它们正表示最大的血流量。
77 1811-1816 EN: When you improve your lifestyle habits, the blood supply to the skin will be more abundant, which can have the effect of delaying aging, because the skin is less prone to wrinkling. Your heart will also pump more blood, which as our research suggests, can even prevent heart attacks. As you can see, the upper left corner of the slide shows the blocked arteries, and after a year of healthy living, the degree of blockage in the arteries is significantly reduced. Let's turn to the tomographic image of the heart in the lower left corner. The blue part indicates that there is no blood flow. Also a year later, we see large orange and white patches which indicate maximum blood flow.
78 1820-1823 ZH: 人们的性器官也会得到更多的血液， 从而提高性能力。 在所有的禁烟广告中，最有效的一个是健康服务部所拍摄的。 这则广告上说，尼古丁不仅会由于紧缩动脉而导致心脏病或中风， 它还会导致性无能。 男性吸烟者中有一半是性无能者，事情变得不那么性感了吧？
78 1820-1823 EN: People's sex organs also get more blood, which improves sexual performance. Of all the anti-smoking ads, one of the most effective was that of the Department of Health Services. The ad said that nicotine not only caused heart attacks or strokes by constricting arteries, it also caused impotence. Half of all male smokers are impotent, things get a little less sexy right?
79 1856-1859 ZH: 在新加坡的设计曾经讨论过。这是新加坡的一个小景点，我们在那里录制了作品， 要在新加坡的超大屏幕上进行展示。 当然，这个作品是最和我意的， 因为所有的这些观点， 有一些一般，有一些有点儿深奥， 都是来自于我的日记。 我确实经常翻阅日记，并查看一下我是否曾想要改变某些状况。
79 1856-1859 EN: The design in Singapore has been discussed. This is a small spot in Singapore where we recorded our work, which is to be shown on a giant screen in Singapore. Of course, this work is the one I like the most, because all these viewpoints, some general and some a bit esoteric, are all from my diary. I do go through my diary often and see if I want to change something.
80 1884-1887 ZH: 苏联人造卫星很快成为冲击美国的三个震惊之一，历史学家称它可与珍珠港或9/11事件相提并论。 它引出了美苏两国导弹力量差距的观点。 并因此引发了两国之间的军备竞赛。 从此太空竞赛拉开帷幕。
80 1884-1887 EN: Sputnik soon became one of three shocks that hit the United States, with historians comparing it to Pearl Harbor or 9/11. It leads to the idea of the missile gap between the United States and the Soviet Union. And thus triggered the arms race between the two countries. Thus the space race began.
81 1892-1895 ZH: 但是人造卫星同样也引起了令人高兴的变化。 例如，在座中也许有人因为人造卫星而获得奖学金进入大学。 对工程，数学和科学的支持使教育得到了长足发展。 并且温顿.瑟夫认为人造卫星直接导致了ARPA以及互联网和NASA的诞生。
81 1892-1895 EN: But artificial satellites also caused some delightful changes. For example, maybe someone in this room got a scholarship to college because of Sputnik. Supports for engineering, maths and science has made education thrive. And Winton Cerf believes that artificial satellites directly led to the birth of ARPA, the Internet and NASA.
82 1915-1918 ZH: 穆雷盖尔：恩，我猜想现代语言一定很古老，比洞穴壁画，洞穴雕刻和洞穴雕刻更早， 在西欧洞穴中发现的软泥上的舞步痕迹所处的3万5千年前奥瑞纳时期以前，或者更早。 我很难相信他们创造了那么多东西却没有拥有现代语言。 所以我猜想真正的语言起源是来自那个时期或者这之前。 但是这也不表明所有的或者大多数现今得到确认的语言不是源自一个更年轻的，可能是2万年前的源头， 或者诸如此类的来源。这也就是我们所谓的瓶颈。
82 1915-1918 EN: Murray Gell-Mann: Well, I guess modern languages must be very old, predating cave paintings, cave engravings, and cave carvings, and the traces of dance steps on ooze found in Western European caves dates to 35,000 years before the Aurignacian period, or more earlier. I find it hard to believe they created so much without owning a modern language. So I guess the real origin of the language is from that period or before that. But that also doesn't mean that all or most of the languages identified today didn't come from a younger source, maybe 20,000 years ago, or something like that. This is what we call a bottleneck.
83 26-30 ZH: 我们生活在一个数码时代，但我们依然是很模式化的生物。 信件仍然很有用。 即使我们总统本人也会每天阅读十封信，由工作人员帮忙选出来。 我可以告诉大家在我工作过的每一个行政机关，都会告诉你他们收到过的信和他们的意义。 所以你为什么不写封信呢。
83 26-30 EN: We live in a digital era, but we are still creatures with pattern. Mailing is still very useful. Even our president himself would read 10 letters, which are selected by the staff, everyday. I can tell you that every administration I've worked in will tell you about the letters they received and what they meant. So why don't you write a letter.  
84 116-122 ZH: 好，假设你现在站在美国任何一个地方的街道上，一个日本人走过来跟你说， “打扰一下，请问这栋街区叫什么名字？” 而你说，“不知道。不过，这条是橡树街，那条是榆树街。 这条是26街，那条是27街。” 他说，“哦，好的。那这栋街区叫什么名字呢？” 你说，“街区是没有名字的。 街道才有名字；街区只不过是街道之间的未命名的空间。” 他带着一点疑惑和失望离开了。
84 116-122 EN: Okay, assume you are standing on a street somewhere in the U.S., a Japanese comes and say, "Excuse me, what is the name of this block?" Then you say, "Don't know. But, this is Oak Street and that is Elm Street. This is 26th Street and that is 27th Street." He says, "Oh, okay. Then what's the name of this block?" You can, "Blocks do not have names. Only streets have names; Blocks are just unnamed spaces between streets." He left with a bit of doubt and disappointment.
85 233-237 ZH: 现在让我们看看英国的一些数据。 这是英国政府的数据， 完全独立的网站， 我的钱花到哪里去了.这个网站让任何人在网站上利用其数据。 你可以根据特别的消费种类来查找，也可以找出不同的地区的数据来做比较。 英国人正在用英国政府提供的数据资料做这些事情。
85 233-237 EN: Now let's look at some data in England. This is UK government data, a completely separate website, Where Does My Money Go. It allows anyone to use their data on the website. You can search according to a particular type of consumption, or you can find data from different regions for comparison. The British are doing these things with data provided by the British government.
86 276-283 ZH: 这是一个早产儿。 看起来，他似乎在安睡，但实际上，他正与死神作斗争。 因为他无法调节自己的体温。 这个婴儿实在太小了， 他没有足够的脂肪来维持体温。 很悲哀，每年都有两千万这样的婴儿诞生在世界上。 其中的四百万无法存活。 但更严重的问题是，如果他们侥幸存活，一些慢性病将伴随他们一生。 因为在婴儿诞生的第一个月，他们唯一要做的就是成长。 如果体温不稳定，器官不能正常发育，随之而来的，就是一连串健康问题，如糖尿病，心脏病， 或弱智。
86 276-283 EN: This is a premature baby. It looks like he is sleeping peacefully, but in fact, he is fighting death. Because he can't regulate his body temperature. The baby is so small that he doesn't have enough fat to maintain his body temperature. Sadly, 20 million such babies are born in the world every year. Four million of them did not survive. But the more serious problem is that if they survive by chance, some chronic diseases will accompany them for a lifetime. Because in the first month of a baby's life, the only thing they have to do is grow. If the body temperature is unstable, organs cannot develop normally, and a series of health problems follow, such as diabetes, heart disease, or mental retardation.
87 285-292 ZH: 给婴儿保暖是恒温箱的主要功能。 但传统的恒温箱需要电源，且售价高达2万美元。 在发展中国家的偏远地区，恒温箱根本不存在。 因此，父母们只能就地取材， 如在早产儿身体周围绑上热水壶，或如你们所看的这张图，将早产儿放在灯泡下--这些方法效果差，且不安全。 我多次亲眼目睹这些惨剧。 头几次去印度时，我遇到了这样一位年轻的女性，Sevitha， 她刚刚诞下了一个瘦小的早产儿，Rani。 她带着孩子去了村子里最近的诊所， 医生建议她带Rani去市区的医院，把Rani放在恒温箱里。 但去医院要花四个多小时。 Sevitha没办法去，于是，她的宝贝走了。
87 285-292 EN: Keeping babies warm is the main function of an incubator. But traditional incubators require a power source and cost up to $20,000. In remote areas of the developing world, incubators simply do not exist. So parents have to rely on local materials, such as strapping a hot water bottle around the body of the premature baby, or as you can see in this picture, placing the premature baby under the light bulb--these methods are ineffective and unsafe. I have witnessed these tragedies many times. On my first few trips to India, I met such a young woman, Sevitha, who had just given birth to a small, premature baby, Rani. She took the child to the nearest clinic in the village, and the doctor advised her to take Rani to the hospital in the city and put Rani in an incubator. But it would take more than four hours to get to the hospital. Sevitha couldn't go, so her baby was gone. 
88 311-316 ZH: 在设计中，我们遵循了一些基本的法则。 我们急用户之所急，想用户之所想， 了解Sevitha他们的需求。 我们努力挖掘问题的根源，不受表面现象的影响。 我们希望寻找最简单的方法来解决问题。 这样一来，我相信科技必将造福于大众。 通过简单的"温暖的拥抱"，我们可以拯救许多生命。
88 311-316 EN: In the design, we followed some basic principles. We were anxious about what users were anxious about, thought about what users thought, and understood the needs of users like Sevitha. We struggled to get to the root of problems without being influenced by superficial phenomena. We wanted to find the easiest way to solve the problem. In this way, I believe that technology will truly benefit the public. With a simple "warm hug" we can save many lives.
89 351-357 ZH: 现在有许多讨论是关于消费金融保护署的， 如何使其工作程序简单化。 我们都看到它的复杂性。 我相信我们和他们都有义不容辞的责任， 使国家重点项目清晰、透明和与大众有共鸣感。 我们无法再允许政府按照他们的表达方式进行表达。 我们无法再与协议中带有隐匿、晦涩难懂条款的公司做生意。 那么，我们如何去改变世界？ 那就是使国家重点项目清晰、透明并且简单化。
89 351-357 EN: There's a lot of discussion right now about the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, and how to simplify its work. We all observe its complexity. I believe we and they all have an inescapable responsibility to make national priorities clear, transparent and relatable. We can no longer allow governments to speak the way they say it. We can no longer do business with companies that have hidden, arcane terms in their agreements. So how do we change the world? The key is to make national priority projects clear, transparent and simple.
90 620-624 ZH: 我很喜欢周间素食这个点子。 我的碳足迹小了，我减低了污染，我对动物感觉好些了，甚至还存了一点钱。 最棒的是，我更健康了，我知道我会更长命，甚至还瘦了一些。 于是，请大家今天自问，为了你的健康，你的财富，为了环境和动物，为什么不试试做个周间的素食者呢？ 如果我们所有人都少吃一半的肉，那就像我们之中有一半人是素食者一样。
90 620-624 EN: I really like the idea of weekday veg. My carbon footprint is smaller, I reduce pollution, I feel better for animals, I even save a little money. Best of all, I'm healthier, I know that I'm going to live longer, and I've even lost a little weight. Therefore, please ask yourself, for your health, for your wealth, for the environment and animals, why not try be a weekday veg? If all of us ate half as much meat, it would be like half of us were vegetarians.
91 629-635 ZH: 我跟一群朋友在2005年建立了一个网站， 叫做Reddit.com。 这是一个社交型新闻网站。 基本上就是说公共首页，上罗列的是目前网上风头最劲的东西。你找到一些好玩儿的， 比如说TEDTalk, 传到Reddit上，然后你的社区同好们喜欢就顶，不喜欢就踩。 首页就是这么来的。升升降降，新闻总是在换。 每天大概有50万的点击量。但这不是Reddit本身的魅力。 这其实是大家对发掘网络上新鲜事的热情。 因为最近四年我们见到了各种各样的流行语，和潮流从我们的首页开始发扬光大。
91 629-635 EN: I built a website with a bunch of friends in 2005, named Reddit.com. It's a social news website.  Basically, it is the public home page, which lists the most popular things on the Internet at present. When you find something interesting, such as TEDTalk, and post it on Reddit, and then your community members will like it and upvote it, and downvote it if they don't like it. This is how the home page comes about. Up and down, the news is always changing. There are about 500,000 hits per day. But that's not the charm of Reddit itself. This is actually everyone's enthusiasm for discovering new things on the Internet. Because in the past four years we have seen all kinds of memes and trends starting from our homepage.
92 761-764 ZH: 而我相信，最根本的教意是： 设计其实是一种交流运动。 它要求我们把我们所有的神志都放到任务中，要求我们运用最佳的思维状态，我们的感知我们的行动，来迎接我们面对的挑战。 而有的时候，一个小小的样板模型的经验，会帮助我们 将“糟了” 的那一刻变成了”哈哈”的一刻。 那造成的结果是大不同的。
92 761-764 EN: And I believe that the most fundamental lesson is the following: design is really a sport of communication. It requires us to put all our minds into the task, to use our best thoughts, our perceptions, and our actions to meet the challenges we face. And sometimes, a little boilerplate experience can help us turn that "sucks" moment into a "haha" moment. That will make a big difference.
93 781-784 ZH: 我演奏了贝多芬小提琴协奏曲的第一乐章。 当我演奏的时候 我知道Nathaniel的眼睛里有一种奥妙的变化。 好象他抓住了什么隐形的药，像是经历了化学反应，而我的演奏就是催化剂。 他的狂躁愤怒也转化成理解，安静的好奇， 和优雅。
93 781-784 EN: I played the first movement of Beethoven's Violin Concerto. When I played I knew there was a profound change in Nathaniel's eyes. It was as if he had caught some invisible drug, like he had experienced a chemical reaction, and my playing was the catalyst. His manic rage also translates into understanding, quiet curiosity, and grace.
94 823-826 ZH: 此外，大脑里面还有一组神经元， 称作运动神经元，也位于大脑的前半部分， 这组神经元是50年前的发现。 当我们要做某种运动时，这组神经元就会发射信息至相关器官。 例如，假若我这样做，我向前屈伸，然后抓住一只苹果， 一个运动神经元则会发射一组信息。 假如我向前屈伸，并回拉一件物品，另外一个神经元则会发射另一组信息以控制我的行动。
94 823-826 EN: In addition, there is a group of neurons in the brain called motor neurons, also located in the front half of the brain, and this group of neurons was discovered 50 years ago. When we perform a certain movement, this group of neurons sends messages to the relevant organs. For example, if I do this, I bend forward, and  grab an apple, a motor neuron will fire a set of messages. If I bend forward and pull back an object, another neuron fires another set of messages to control my actions.
95 828-832 ZH: 不过，里佐拉蒂他们发现 这组神经元中包含着另外一组神经元， 大约百分之二十左右。这些神经元是会当我观看他人行动时，发出与此行动一样的信息。 所以，当我向前抓住某物件时，有个神经元会发出相关信息， 可是若我观看乔做相同的动作时，另一个神经元也会发出相关信息。 这实在是令人震惊。 因为这表明，神经元也会采纳别人的观点。 几乎就是模仿了他人的动作， 有如虚拟现实仿真。
95 828-832 EN: However, Rizzolatti and his colleagues found that this group of neurons contains another group of neurons, about 20 percent. These neurons are the ones that send out the same message when I watch someone else act. So, when I grab something forward, one neuron fires, but when I watch Joe do the same thing, another neuron fires. This is really shocking. Because it shows that neurons also take in other people's perspectives. It's almost like imitating other people's actions, like a virtual reality simulation.
96 841-845 ZH: 现在，让我们从人类文化方面入手。 让我们回到七万五千年至十万年前时， 我们来观测下人类进化的过程，结果发现于七万五千年前左右，一件重大事件影响了人类的发展。 那就是，各种独特的“人类”技巧突然出现以及迅速传播。这些技巧包括工具的使用、 火的使用、房屋的出现和语言交流， 以及读取他人心思的能力和理解他人的行为。 这一切都相对地较快发生。 原始人类的大脑形状大约于四至五十万年前就已经发育至今人的形状， 不过这些事件则是十万年前才快速地发生。 
96 841-845 EN: Now, let us start with human culture. Let us go back to 75,000 to 100,000 years ago, observe the process of human evolution, we find that around 75,000 years ago, a major event affected the development of human beings. That is, the sudden emergence and rapid dissemination of various special "human" skills. These skills include the use of tools, the use of fire, the presence of houses and verbal communication, as well as the ability to read other people's minds and understand their behavior. This all happened relatively quickly. The shape of human brains developed into the current shape about 40,000 to 500,000 years ago, but these events happened rapidly 100,000 years ago.  
97 850-853 ZH: 若要使一只北极熊进化出一件外衣， 则需要他们经过数千代的传承，或许需要十万年方能得出外衣。 一个人类小孩，则仅需观看他的父母如何屠杀另一只北极熊， 将其剥皮拆骨，用来制造外衣。 小孩因此可以快速掌握这一技能。 北极熊需要十万年才得以进化出外衣， 人类小孩仅仅要五分钟或者十分钟就学会了。 当他们学会之后，这项技能将以燎原之势散播于他们的氏族当中。 这就是本源。文化就是模仿复杂的行为活动，而文明则产于此。
97 850-853 EN: For a polar bear to evolve a coat, it would take them thousands of generations, perhaps 100,000 years, to develop the coat. A human child simply needs to watch his parents slaughter another polar bear, skin and bone it to make a coat. The child can thus quickly master this skill. It took polar bears 100,000 years to evolve a coat, a human child can learn it in five or ten minutes. After they learn it, the skill will spread like wildfire among their clan. This is the source. Culture is the imitation of the complex behaviors from which civilization is born. 
98 1403-1410 ZH: 我想说的是，面临挑战不失为一件好事。 面对逆境，我们不应把它当成障碍绕过它，从而继续我们的生活。 其实，逆境是我们生活的一部分。 我把逆境想象成我自己的影子。 有的时候它看起来很大，有的时候很小，但是它始终在我身边。 当然，我不是试图贬低人们与逆境作斗争的价值和意义。 我们在一生中注定要经历逆境与挑战，我们每个人都是，但是我们所关注的问题并不是你是否要去面对逆境，而是如何去面对它。 所以，我们的责任不是简简单单地让我们关心的人生活在温床里 而是让他们能够形成从容应对逆境的能力。
98 1403-1410 EN: I would say that being challenged is not a bad thing. In the face of adversity, we should not treat it as an obstacle to bypass it and move on with our lives. In fact, adversity is part of our life. I imagine adversity as my own shadow. Sometimes it looks big, sometimes it's small but it's always by my side. Of course, I am not trying to belittle the value and significance of people struggling with adversity. We are all destined to experience adversity and challenges in our lives, each of us is, but the question we are concerned with is not whether you are going to face adversity, but how you are going to face it. So our responsibility is not simply to keep those we care about living in hotbeds but to enable them to develop the ability to cope with adversity.
99 1423-1426 ZH: 今年我们庆祝了达尔文的200周年诞辰，当达尔文在150年前写物种进化论的时候，他阐明了一个关于人类特征的真理。 他说的那句话大概意思就是，能生存下来的物种，往往不是最强壮的，也不是最聪明的，而是最能适应外部环境变化的。 矛盾冲突是创造之母。 达尔文等诸位大师的著作都揭示了这一点，人类生存繁衍的能力，源自人类灵魂经历激烈斗争后的转变，就是这样。
99 1423-1426 EN: This year we celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin, who, when he wrote Evolution of Species 150 years ago, articulated a truth about human traits. What he said roughly meant that the species that can survive are often not the strongest or the smartest, but the ones that can best adapt to changes in the external environment. Conflict is the mother of creation. The works of Darwin and other masters have revealed this point. The ability of human beings to survive and reproduce comes from the transformation of human souls after undergoing fierce struggles.
