0 12-20 ZH: 但首先我有两件事需要事先说明。 就两件。 第一，我是加拿大人。第二，我是家中七个孩子里最小的。 在加拿大，我们有很好的医保制度。 那意味著置换髋骨是免费的。 而身为七个小孩中的老幺，任何事情都是最后一个轮到我。 我的髋骨已经折磨了我好多年。 我终于去看了医生，那是免费的。 她将我转诊给骨外科医生，那也是免费的。
0 12-20 EN: But first I have two things to clarify. Just two. First, I'm Canadian. Second, I'm the youngest among seven children in my family. In Canada, we have an excellent medicare system. That means hip arthroplasty is free. However, being the youngest of the seven, my turn always comes at the last for everything. My hip bone had been tortured me for years. I finally saw the doctor. It was free. She transferred me to an orthopedic surgeon. It was also free.
1 48-54 ZH: 医院的小礼品店窗上有个启事 写着“义工招募中”，恩~。 他们马上就雇佣了我。 没有按常规检查背景，不要推荐人。 他們亟需义工，因为医院礼品店里现有义工的平均年龄是75岁。 是的。他们需要一些新鲜血液。 所以很快我就穿上了鲜蓝色的义工背心，有了工作证，89岁的老板对我进行了全面的培训。 我能独当一面了。
1 48-54 EN: On the window of the hospital gift shop, there was a job ad saying "Looking for Volunteers," hmm. They hired me immediately. No background check, no recommenders. They were in dire need of volunteers because the average volunteer age was 75 years old. Yes, they needed some new blood. So I quickly put on my bright blue volunteer vest, got my work permit, and got training from my 89-year-old boss. I could work independently from then on.
2 112-119 ZH: 但结束前我想要问大家一个重要问题。 我们是第一代可以有办法进入探索脑内部的人类， 利用这个科技技术去了解人类的脑部及心灵。 这项技术将在未来发展成什么样子呢？ 刚好一年以前，我接待了一位高官，此人来自美国国防部。 他提道：“在派驻外国的士兵之中，有一千六百人至少丢了一个完整的胳膊。 想象一下，整个胳膊！ 自美国南北战争以来，我们一直都在使用假肢来帮助他们，这种情况一直没有改观。 我们应该为他们做得更多。”
2 112-119 EN: But before we end, I'd like to ask everyone an important question. We are the first generation of humans to have methods to discover the inside of human brains and use this technology to know about the mind. What will this technology become in the future? Exactly one year ago, I got a visit from a senior government official who worked for the US Department of Defense. He asked: "Among all soldiers who were sent to foreign countries, 1,600 of them lost at least a complete arm. Imagine, an entire arm! Ever since the civil war, we have been helping them using prosthetics, and this situation has not changed. We should do more for them."
3 202-209 ZH: 在这张地图上，所有蓝色区域的国家中百分之20的人口年龄大于65岁。 这是现在的情况。 这是我们下一代的情况。 12000年前，人口年龄分布图像一座金字塔，年长者在顶端。 现在，顶端基本上已经平坦了。 预计到2050年时，整个分布图会变成柱状并开始上下颠倒。 发生这种变化的原因是人类的平均寿命长度已经从1840年时翻了一倍，并且还在以每天5小时的速度增加。
3 202-209 EN: On this map, all countries in the blue region have 20 percent of the population with age older than 65. This is the current situation. This is our children's situation. 12,000 years ago, the distribution of population age looked like a pyramid, where the older people are at the top. Nowadays, the top is almost flat. Around the year 2050, the distribution plot will first become a straight column then an inverted pyramid. The reason why this happens is that the average human lifespan has doubled compared to the year 1840, and is still increasing at 5 hours a day.
4 211-218 ZH: 到2050年时，美国会有3千2百万人 年龄大于80岁，如果我们还不采取措施的话，他们中的一半会得老年痴呆症，三百万人会得帕金斯症。 当前，这类神经疾病我们还无法治愈或预防，尽管我们每年要花费掉将近3000亿美元。 这个数字到2050年预计会超过1万亿美元。 老年痴呆症的发生就像是本来应该折叠成正确形状的蛋白质被胡乱揉成一团。 因此我们可以设想：能否制造一种分子胶，把蛋白质固定成它本来的形状。 这样就可以避免在它变形的过程中缠结一团，从而破坏了大面积的脑神经。 更有意思的是：在其他一些影响不同脑功能的神经类疾病 ，也发现了错误折叠纠缠一团的蛋白质。这就是说：原因也许是一致的 也许可以用来治疗很多神经类疾病 并不只是老年痴呆症。 另外，神经疾病还与癌症有密切关系，因为神经疾病患者的各种癌症的发病率都很低。
4 211-218 EN: By the year 2050, the US will have 32 million people with ages older than 80, if we do nothing about it, half of them will have Alzheimer's disease and 3 million people will have Parkinson's disease. Right now, these neurological diseases have no cure or prevention, but still cost us about 300 billion dollars per year. This number is projected to exceed 1 trillion dollars by 2050. Alzheimer's disease is triggered when proteins that should be folded into correct shapes instead are crumpled up into a mess. So we can imagine: can we produce a kind of molecular glue that fixes proteins into their original shape? That prevents them from turning into a mess when folding and causing damage to a wide range of brain neurons. Even more interestingly, in other neurological diseases that affect different brain functions, we also discovered proteins that were folded incorrectly. This means the cause for these diseases might be the same, and this approach can be used to cure many neurological diseases not limited to Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, neurological diseases are linked to cancer, because people with neurological diseases have a very low incidence rate for most cancers.
5 222-227 ZH: 同时，在等待过程中， 可以为自己做些预防。 如果你想减少患帕金森症的机率，咖啡因似乎有些作用，但没人知道为什么。 头部受伤会增加患帕金斯症的机率。 禽流感也一样。 至于预防老年痴呆症，鱼油是可以有效地，降低患老年痴呆症的风险。 另外，还应该注意保持血压，因为慢性高血压是最有可能导致老年痴呆症的。
5 222-227 EN: In the meantime, while waiting, we can use some precaution for ourselves. If you want to decrease your risk of Parkinson's disease, caffeine seems to help, but no one knows why. Having a head injury will increase the chance of Alzheimer's disease. Same with Avian Influenza. As for preventing Alzheimer's disease, fish oil is effective for decreasing the risk. Also, we should care about blood pressure, because chronic high blood pressure is the most likely to cause Alzheimer's disease.
6 236-243 ZH: 让我们先花一分钟的时间来看看伟大的传奇人物列奥纳多·达·芬奇。 我们对他的杰作是再熟悉不过了── 他的画作、他的发明、他的写作。 但我们却不知道他长什么样。 虽然关于他的著作成百上千， 但对于他的样貌，人们仍旧是充满分歧。 即使是这幅著名的肖像画，也无法得到很多艺术史学家的认可。 你们觉得呢？ 这到底是不是列奥纳多·达·芬奇的面孔呢？ 让我们一同寻找答案。
6 236-243 EN: Let's take a minute to look at the great legend Leonardo da Vinci. We are all very familiar with his masterpieces--his paintings, his inventions, his writing. But we don't know what he looks like. Although hundreds of books have been written about him, people are still divided about what he looked like. Even this famous portrait is not recognized by many art historians. What do you think? Is this the face of Leonardo da Vinci? Let's find out together.
7 244-252 ZH: 达·芬奇是一个会画身边各种事物的人。 他画过人物、人体结构、动植物、风景、建筑、江河湖海、各种事物。 但却从来没有画过脸？ 我觉得这有点让人难以置信。 他同时代的画家都画过自画像，就好比你们现在看到的这些。 正面或者是四分之三的侧面像。 所以像达·芬奇这样充满热情的画家，也一定会时不时地画些自画像。 就让我们试着把他们给找出来。 我认为如果我们仔细查阅他所有的作品， 并从中寻找自画像，我们就可以发现他的面孔。 于是我认真查看了他所有的画，700多幅， 从中寻找男士的画像。
7 244-252 EN: Leonardo da Vinci was a man who drew everything around him. He drew people, structures of the human body, plants and animals, scenery, architecture, mountains, rivers, and all kinds of things. However, he never drew a face? I think this is a bit unbelievable. His contemporary artists had drawn self portraits, just like those you are seeing now. Front face or three-quarters. So a passionate artist like Leonardo da Vinci would definitely draw some portraits from time to time. Let’s try find them out. I think if we look closely at all his works and find portraits among them, we can find his face. So I looked at all his paintings in detail, 700 of them, and looked for male portraits among them.
8 274-280 ZH: 问题是，他们是不是依照正确的时间顺序绘制的呢？ 年轻人的画像应该是最先绘制的。 而如果你们看看这些画像创作的年份， 就会发现事实的确如此。 他们是按照正确的时间顺序绘制的。 而达·芬奇在创作这些画像的时候的年龄又是多大呢？和画中人的年龄相符吗？ 是的，完全相符。他在创作这些画像的时候分别是33岁、38岁和63岁。 也就是说，我们现在这里的三幅画像，有可能是同一个人的画像， 平且画中人和达·芬奇创作这些画像时的年龄是一致的。
8 274-280 EN: The problem is, are they drawn with the correct chronological order? A young man’s portrait should be drawn first. And if you look at the age of these paintings, you will find out it’s indeed the case. They are drawn with the correct chronological order. But how old was Leonardo da Vinci when he created those paintings? Is that similar to the age of the man in the painting? Yes, they match exactly. He was 33, 38, and 63 years old, respectively, when he created those paintings. That is to say, the three portraits we are looking at here are likely to be the portrait of the same man, with the same age of Leonardo da Vinci when he drew them.
9 281-290 ZH: 但我们如何知道这画中之人是达·芬奇而不是别人呢？ 我们需要一个可供参考的标准。 这里是唯一一幅被广泛接受的达·芬奇的照片。 是韦罗基奥创作的大卫雕像， 由15岁的达·芬奇当作人体模特。 如果我们把这个雕塑的脸和之前那个音乐家的脸相比较的话，我们就会再次发现之前那些相同的特征。 这个雕像就是参考物，将达·芬奇的身份同那三张脸联系起来。 女士们、先生们，这个故事暂未发表。 由在座的TED观众们对之先睹为快是再为合适不过了。 伟人中的伟人终于有了脸孔。 他就是──列奥纳多·达·芬奇。
9 281-290 EN: But how do we know it is Leonardo da Vinci who is in this painting, not someone else? We need a plausible standard. This is the only widely accepted photograph of Leonardo. It is the statue of David by Verrocchio, posed by 15-year-old Leonardo. If we compare the face of this sculpture with the face of the previously mentioned musician, we will find the similar features again. This statue is the reference that connects Leonardo’s identity with those three faces. Ladies and gentlemen, this story has not been published yet. It is great to let the audience at this TED talk see it first. The icon of icons finally has a face. He is Leonardo da Vinci.
10 319-326 ZH: 我遇到了霍金教授，他说他的梦想是宇宙旅行。 我说，我不能带你到那儿去 但是我可以让你体验失重的状态。 他说，太好了，当然可以。 那么，在地球上体验零重力的唯一方法就是用抛物线飞行来体验。 你坐在飞机上，飞到最高处的时候你大概能体验25秒。 然后下来，你体重会加倍。 然后如此反复。 你最多可以体验八次10分钟的无重力状态，那是NASA一直用来训练他们航天员的办法。
10 319-326 EN: I met Professor Hawking, and he said his dream was traveling in space. I said, I couldn’t take you there, but I could let you experience the loss of gravity. He said, great, absolutely yes. So, the only way to experience zero gravity is by parabolic flight. You sit in an airplane, and experience it for about 25 seconds at the top. And then you go down, your weight doubles, and it repeats. You can experience 8 to 10 minutes of zero gravity in total. That is NASA’s way of training their astronauts.
11 341-350 ZH: 我们带他到了肯尼迪空间中心 进了NASA的车子，然后到了那架飞机上。 和我们同行的还有20位捐款的人们。我们共为儿童慈善基金募集到了十五万美金。他们将跟我们一起飞行。 有一些TED会员。 我们准备好了一切的急救措施。 飞机上还有四位急救室的医生和两位护士。 我们时刻监视着他血液中PO2的含量，他的心跳率还有血压。 我们准备好了一切的应急措施，天知道你可不想伤害到这位世界级的专家。 我们从宇宙飞船着陆点起飞，就是宇宙飞船起飞和降落的地方。 我跟我的搭档 Byron Lichtenberg 小心翼翼地扶着他进入零重力。 到了顶点我们就松手，让他真正体验无重力是什么感觉。
11 341-350 EN: I brought him to the Kennedy Space Center, went into NASA’s car, and entered the airplane. There are 20 donors flying with us. We have raised 150,000 dollars for the children’s charity fund. They would fly with us. Among them were some TED members. We have prepared all emergency precautions. There are four ER doctors and two nurses on the airplane. We are monitoring the PO2 level of his blood, his heartbeat, and his blood pressure. We had prepared everything, god knows you don’t want to hurt this world-level expert. We took off from where the spaceship took off and landed. Me and my partner Byron Lichtenberg carefully helped him into zero gravity. At the top we let go of our hands and let him experience what real zero gravity feels like.
12 366-372 ZH: 现时世界上有十亿儿童， 他们中的一半都没有电力资源，无论是在学校还是在家。 并且在某些国家--如阿富汗-- 75%的小女孩都不会去上学。 我所指的不是她们被学校退学，而是在她们三、四年级的时候--她们根本没去上学。 所以这三年来自从我在TED里演讲，并展示一件产品， 它从一个想法转变成一台真正的手提电脑。 现在，我们已将五十万台手提电脑发放到（世界各地的）儿童手上。 我们还拥有二十五万台手提电脑正准备运送到儿童的手上， 以及二十五万台手提电脑正被订购。 那么，大概算来，这里共有一百万台手提电脑。
12 366-372 EN: Right now there are a billion children in the world, but half of them doesn’t not have access to electricity, no matter at home or at school. In some countries, such as Afghanistan, 75% percent of little girls don't go to school. We don’t mean they are expelled from school, but when they are third or fourth grade, they have no way to go to school. So in the past three years I’ve been talking at TED and showing a product. It went from an idea to a real laptop computer. Now, we have shopped 500,000 laptops to children around the world. We also have 250,000 laptops ready to be shipped, and 250,000 laptops being ordered. That counted, there are around 1 million laptops in total.
13 376-381 ZH: 然后突然地， 这群儿童被手提电脑联系起来。 他们已超越了上一代。 这种变化是绝对具有纪念意义的， 因为这不仅仅是将这个地区开放， 而是将整个地区与世界联系起来了。 因此，他们将会进行交通建设，他们将会有电话， 而且他们还会拥有电视。 但是这群6到12岁的孩子却在用西班牙语和当地语言上网， 所以这群孩子是被资讯伴随着长大， 并且他们打开了一扇通向世界的门窗。 在此之前，他们是被封闭的。
13 376-381 EN: And suddenly, these children are connected by the laptops. They have surpassed the last generation. This chance is definitely meaningful, because it not only means the opening of this region, but also connecting this region with the world. Because of this, they will build roads, they will have telephones, and they will have televisions. But this group of kids from 6 to 12 years of age are using Spanish and local language on the internet, so this group of kids is growing with information, and it opens a window to the world for them. Before this, they were closed up.
14 386-393 ZH: 现在已得到的一些结果是什么？ 其中的一些结果是在每个国家都能观测到的，包括老师都说，他们从来没有如此热爱教学， 以及热爱阅读。这些都是由第三方统计的结果--不是我们--明显飙升。 然而我们所见的最重要的事是，儿童在教导他们的父母。 他们有笔记电脑。他们将它们带回家。 所以当我和三位在当地学校上学的孩子见面时， 这个地方离波哥大有一天的路程， 其中一位孩子带来他的母亲。 而她带她母亲来的原因是，她这位六岁大的儿童正在教她妈妈如何读写。 她妈妈从没有上过小学。 这是一个怎样的倒置， 并且也是一个奇妙的例子，体现了孩子是如何作为变化的推动者。
14 386-393 EN: What are the results we have right now? Some of the results are observable in every country, including the teachers who say that they never loved teaching so much, and reading as well. These are statistics produced by third parties, not us, and the numbers went up dramatically. But the most important thing we see is children teaching their parents. They have laptops. They bring them home. So when I met three students in local schools, which is one day away from Bogota, one kid brought his mother. She brought her mother because this 6-year-old kid is teaching her mother how to read and write. Her mother never went to elementary school. What an inversion this is, and also an amazing example that shows how kids are the propellers for change.
15 394-400 ZH: 因此现在，作为结尾，人们问道， 为什么用手提电脑？ 手提电脑是奢侈品；就譬如给予他们iPod。不。 你们想要给予手提电脑的原因是教育，而不是手提电脑本身。 这是教育项目，而不是手提电脑项目。 他们需要学会学习。然后，就想象一下-- 他们可以拥有，譬如说，一百本书。 在一个村庄里，有一百台手提电脑， 而且每台电脑里都有不同套的一百本书， 那么这个村庄的将会瞬间拥有一万本书。 你和我在小学的时候都没有一万本书。
15 394-400 EN: So now, as the ending, people ask, why laptops? Laptops are luxury, just like giving them iPod. No, you want to give them laptops because of education, but not the laptops themselves. This is an educational program, but not a laptop program. They need to learn how to study. And then, just imagine -- they can have, for example, one hundred books. In a village, there are one hundred laptops, and each laptop has a different hundred books, then this village will instantly have ten thousand books. You and I don’t have ten thousand books in elementary schools.
16 401-411 ZH: 有时学校就在一棵树底下， 并且很多老师都只有小学五年级的受教育水平， 因此你需要创建一个互相学习的合作模型， 而不仅仅是建立更多所学校以及培训更多的教师， 但这也是你无论如何都要做的。 我们再次发起了“送一台，买一台”运动。 去年，我们发起的“送一台，买一台”运动， 并且创造了十万台手提电脑使我们可以将之免费发放出去。 并且作为一台零美元的手提电脑， 我们可以将之送到一些完全无法负担的国家去。 这就是我们所做的。我们去了海地， 去了卢旺达，以及阿富汗， 还有埃塞俄比亚和蒙古。 一些没有市场的地方， 用着饱和，连接性， 低龄化等原则来看待。 而我们可以用之产生一些巨大的数字。 因此让我们这样来想： 就好像为愚昧无知接种疫苗一样。 将手提电脑看作一种疫苗。 你不是为一小部分个体接种疫苗。 而是为整个群体接种疫苗。
16 401-411 EN: Sometimes the school is under a tree, and a lot of teachers only have fifth grade education, so you need a collaborative working model, and not just building more schools and training more teachers, which need to be done anyway. We are having the "buy one, get one free" campaign again. Last year, we initiated the "buy one, get one free" campaign, and created 100,000 laptops that we can give for free. And as a zero-dollar laptop, we can send them to some countries that can not afford it. This is what we’ve done. We went to Haiti, Rwanda, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, and Mongolia. Some places where there’s no market, using principles of saturation, connectivity, low ages, etc. But we can use it to generate some big numbers. So let’s think like this: just like vaccines against ignorance. We view laptops as vaccines. You don’t just vaccinate a small subgroup, but vaccinate the entire group.
17 420-427 ZH: 爸爸在他生命中的最后两年，在生病的状态中， 把他对我的看法都写满在记事本上。 他写下我的长处和短处并提出一些能助我改正的方法，同时亦引用特殊的例子，为我的生活提供反思。 在他离世后，我发现没有人再写信给我了。 书写这门艺术正渐渐地消失。 我平日会用电子邮件，也会一面思考一面打字，但为何要为了新的事物而舍弃旧有的习惯？为何书信和电子邮件不能与我们的生活融合在一起？有一段时间我因为太忙碌而没有坐下来跟我父亲聊聊天。有时，我真的很想换回那几年，然后再以那些时光来换爸爸的一个拥抱。 可是已经太迟了。
17 420-427 EN: My dad in his last two years of his life, when he was sick, wrote all his opinions about me in a notebook. He wrote about my strengths and weaknesses, and provided some ways to improve them, and cited special examples to provide retrospect for my life. When he passed away, I found that no one wrote to me anymore. Writing as an art is dying. We use email everyday, and type while we think, but why give up the old habit because of new things? Why letters and emails can’t be blended together with our lives? There are times when I was too busy to sit down and talk to my father. Sometimes, I really wish to swap back those years, and use those times to hug my dad. But everything is too late now.
18 501-507 ZH: 让我从一个例子开始。 这是一所医院里的一个清洁工的工作说明， 在屏幕上滚动着。 这上面所写的东西都很平常。 这都是一些你能预料得到的事情： 扫地，清理垃圾，倒垃圾筒，进货机柜，等等。 这些事的数量可能有点令人惊讶， 但是这些事的内容却很平常。 但是在这里面，有个现象我想让你们注意： 尽管这个清单很长， 但是里面没有一条是涉及到其他人的。 一个都没有。
18 501-507 EN: Let me begin with an example. This is a work instruction for janitors in a hospital, scrolling on a screen. Everything it writes is normal. These are predictable things: mop the floor, clean the trash, empty the trash can, and restock the cabinets, etc. The number of these things are a bit surprising, but the contents are normal. But among them, there’s a phenomenon I want you to notice: although this is a long list, none of them is related to other people. Not a single one.
19 521-526 ZH: 现实世界的问题常常很暧昧和模糊， 而且问题的内容还常常变换。 一个明智的人就像爵士乐手一样， 看着歌谱演奏的时候并不会完全遵从， 会即兴创作来与当时的情形和周围的人相适宜。 一个明智的人知道如何使用道德技能为一个正确的目的而工作。 为他人服务，而不是应付他人。 最后，也许也是最重要的， 一个明智的人不是天生的，而是后天形成的。 智慧依赖于经验， 但不是依赖于所有的经验。
19 521-526 EN: Real-world problems are often ill-defined and ambiguous, and the context of the problem changes often. A wise person is like a jazz musician-looking at the notes on the page but not following them completely, and improvises as fit to the surrounding situation and people. A wise person knows how to use the skills of morality and work for a correct purpose. To serve other people, not to handle other people. Last but most importantly, a wise person is not born, but made. Wisdom depends on experience, but not just replying on experience.
20 541-545 ZH: 一个父亲和他七岁的儿子在棒球场看底特律虎队的比赛。 儿子给他说想喝点柠檬水，这个父亲就去商店买。 但是店里只有Mike‘s Hard柠檬水， 里面有5%的酒精含量。 这个父亲（一个学者）完全不知道里面含了酒精。 所以他就买了回来。
20 541-545 EN: A father and his seven-year-old son were watching a Detroit Tigers game at the stadium. His son said he wanted some lemonade, so the dad went to buy it at the shop. But the shop only had Mike's Hard Lemonade, which contained 5 percent alcohol. The dad was in academia and didn’t know it contained alcohol, so he bought it back.
21 560-567 ZH: 当事情确实做错了， 我们会用两类工具去弥补。 一类工具就是规则条例。 更多，更好的规则。 我们会寻求的第二类工具就是激励制度。 更多，更好的激励制度。 究竟还有什么其他的东西呢？ 我可以轻易的在对现在的经济危机的响应中发现。 管制，管制再管制。
21 560-567 EN: When something is really done wrong, we use two types of tools to fix it. The first kind of tool is rules. More and better rules. The second kind of tool is incentives. More and better incentives. What else do we have? We can easily find them in our current response to economic crises. Regulation, regulation, and more regulation.
22 589-593 ZH: 掌声。 不要误解我的意思。我们是需要规则的！ 爵士乐手也需要一些谱子， 他们中大部分人还需要看着谱子演奏。 我们需要更多的条款来约束银行家，上帝也知道。 但是太多的规则会让熟练的爵士乐手无法即兴创作。 最终，他们会丢失他们的天赋， 或者更坏，他们完全不再演出。
22 589-593 EN: Applause. Don’t misunderstand me. We need rules! Jazz musicians need some notes, and most of them still need the notes to play. We need more regulations to limit the bankers, God knows that. But too many rules make adept jazz musicians unable to improvise. Finally, they lose their talent, or even worse, they stop playing.
23 601-608 ZH: 大概在15年以前的瑞士， 人们试图决定要在哪里处置核废料。 那时举行了全国性的公民投票。 一些心理学家就四处游走，向一些知识丰富的公民拉票。 他们就问：“你愿意在你的社区里放置核废料吗？”。 吃惊的是，50%的公民说愿意。 他们知道危险性。 他们也知道这将降低他们房产的价值。 但是这些废料总要放到某个地方，而且作为公民也有义务。
23 601-608 EN: In Switzerland about 15 years ago, people were trying to decide where to dispose of the nuclear waste. At that time there was a national referendum. Then some psychologists went around and polled some knowledgeable citizens. They asked: “Are you willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your neighborhood?” Surprisingly, 50 percent of the citizens said yes. They know it would lower the value of their property. But these waste needed to be somewhere, and as citizens they had obligations.
24 678-684 ZH: 他们发现这样一个事实，就是孩子需要学的的最重要的一件事就是人格。 他们需要学习尊重自己。 他们需要学习尊重他们的同学。 他们需要学习尊重他们的老师。 最重要的是，他们需要学习尊重学习。 这是一个理论性的目标。 如果你这么做了，剩下的就像是向下的滑坡一下好走。
24 678-684 EN: They discovered such a truth: the most important thing a child needs to learn is character. They need to learn to respect themselves. They need to learn to respect their classmates. They need to learn to respect their teachers. Most importantly, they need to learn to respect learning. This is a theoretical goal. If you do this, then what’s left is like a smooth downhill ride.
25 686-690 ZH: 奥巴马呼吁美德。 我认为他是对的。 而且我认为我们最需要的美德就是实践的智慧。 因为他让其他的美德-诚实，善良，勇气等等--在正确的时间以正确的方式展现出来。 他还呼吁期望。 也是对的。
25 686-690 EN: Obama advocated for virtue. I think he is right. Also, I think the virtue that we need the most is the wisdom of practicality. Because it makes other virtues -- honesty, kindness, courage, etc. -- shown at the right time in the right way. He also advocated for hope. Also correct.
26 750-757 ZH: 首先我们回顾一下去年的内容。 每个球代表一个国家。 X轴是生育率，每个妇女的育儿数，Y轴是平均寿命年数。 当前数据是1950年，这些是发达国家 这些是发展中国家。 那时世界是由“我们和他们”构成的。 那时候各国差距很大。 后来世界往好的方向上改变了。 这就是变化的过程。
26 750-757 EN: First, let’s look back at last year’s content. Each circle represents a country. The x-axis is fertility rate, which is the number of children per woman. The y-axis is the average lifespan. The current data is 1950, and these are the developed countries, while those are the developing countries. At that time, the world was constructed by "us" and "them." Back then the differences between countries were huge. Then the world changed to be better. This is what happened.
27 819-827 ZH: 回到1920年，先看看日本。 也看看瑞典和美国。 我们将举办一场车赛，选手分别是黄色的福特车（美国） 红色的丰田车（日本） 和棕色的沃尔沃车（瑞典）。 （笑声） 比赛开始。 丰田车启动时的表现很差，福特车驶出了赛道。 沃尔沃表现的很不错。 二战时，丰田车跑到了赛道外，但它很快调整好并在健康水平高于瑞典的一侧运行。 现在它的健康水平已经超过了瑞典。 就在那一年 我把自己的沃尔沃换成了丰田车。
27 819-827 EN: Back in 1920, let's look at Japan first. Also look at Sweden and the USA. We are going to organize a motor race. The candidates are this yellow Ford (USA), the red Toyota (Japan), and the brown Volvo (Sweden). (Laughter) The race is on. The Toyota is bad at the start, and the Ford drives off the race track. Volvo is doing great. During World War II, the Toyota ran off-track but it soon managed to run on the healthier side of Sweden. Now it’s healthier than Sweden. That year, I changed my Volvo to a Toyota car.
28 832-840 ZH: 下面把我的家族史展示给大家看一下 （这张图代表今天的世界）。 Y轴代表健康水平，X轴是收入。 这根红线代表了我的家族。 这里是1830年的瑞典 ，我的曾曾祖母出生于这一年。 1830年的瑞典和今天的塞拉利昂一样。 我的曾祖母生于1863年。 1863年的瑞典和今天的莫桑比克一样。 我的祖母生于1891年。 是她看着我长大的 现在我给大家讲述的不是统计数据 而是我本人的家族历史。
28 832-840 EN: Now I will show my family history (this picture represents today’s world). The y-axis is health level, while the x-axis is income. This red line represents my family. This is Sweden in 1830, where my great-great-grandmother was born. Sweden in 1830 was like today’s Sierra Leone. My great-grandmother was born in 1863. Sweden in 1863 was like today’s Mozambique. My grandmother was born in 1891. She watched me grow as a child. Now I’m not telling you statistics, but my own family history.
29 876-881 ZH: 现在大家所看到的是“美元街”。 所有人都住在这条街上。 上面的数字代表居民每天的收入。 这家人每天收入1美元。 我们驾车往前走，这家人每天收入2-3美元。 继续往前走，看到街上第一个带花园的房子，他们家每天收入10-50美元。
29 876-881 EN: Now people are seeing "Dollar Street." Everyone lives on this street. The numbers above represent their daily income. This family earns 1 dollar per day. We drive a bit forward, and this family earns 2 to 3 dollars per day. Keeping driving forward, we see the first house on the street with a garden, and they earn 10 to 50 dollars per day.
30 896-902 ZH: 我以前的研究并不是现在的IT领域。 我在非洲工作了20年，终日奔走于饥饿的非洲农民中间，我在非洲工作了20年，终日奔走于饥饿的非洲农民中间。 这张照片记录了对“农民需求”的一项研究。 有趣的是，你在照片上分辨不出谁是研究人员。 在贫困地区开展研究的时候，你必须和当地人生活在一起。 如果你在贫困线以下，生存就是你的全部。 必须获得食物。
30 896-902 EN: My past research was not in IT, which is what I’m doing now. I worked 20 years in Africa, in between hungry African farmers. This photograph is a record of research on "farmer’s needs." Interestingly, you can’t tell who is the researcher in the picture. When conducting research in poor areas, you need to live with the local people. If we live under the poverty line, life is all about survival. You need to get food.
31 911-915 ZH: 技术支持可以帮助人们脱贫，而市场对于人们脱贫也很重要。 照片里的妇女很开心，她正把农产品运到市场上去卖。 她很感谢政府的教育投资，她学会了算术。这样在市场里不会被骗。 她也希望孩子健康，这样她可以安心去市场，而不是在家里照顾小孩。 她还希望有基础设施，有一条铺好的道路很重要。
31 911-915 EN: Technology supports people to get out of poverty, and the market is also important for that. The woman in the photo is very happy, because she is selling her products to the market. She is thankful for the government’s investment on education, and she learned arithmetics. Because of that she won’t be cheated in the market. She also hopes her children will be healthy, so she can go to the market with ease instead of taking care of children at home. She also hopes for infrastructure, and a well-paved road is important.
32 916-919 ZH: 另外小额贷款也很有用。 小额贷款帮她买了自行车。 她还需要讯息，何时带何种农产品去市场。 而这些都是我们能实现的。
32 916-919 EN: And small-scale loans also help. Small loans helped her to buy a bicycle. She also needs information, when to go to the market and what to bring. These are what we can achieve.
33 920-923 ZH: 非洲20年的经历让我明白，看上去不可能的事情其实是可能的。 非洲的表现一点也不差。 50年时间里，非洲从中世纪之前的水平发展为100年前的欧洲，并建立起国家系统。 我想说撒哈拉以南非洲地区在过去的50年中，是发展速度最快的地区。
33 920-923 EN: My 20 years of experience in Africa allowed me to see that what looks impossible is actually possible. What Africa is doing is not bad at all. Within 50 years, Africa leaped from pre-medieval level to Europe 100 years ago, and managed to create the systems of a country. I’d like to say that sub-saharan Africa is the fastest developing region in the past 50 years.
34 926-931 ZH: 我们应该更深入了解这个世界。 我的邻居了解200种葡萄酒。 他对这些酒了如指掌。 他知道葡萄的名字，酿酒的温度。 我就知道2种葡萄酒，红的和白的。 （笑声） 但是我邻居就知道2种国家，发达国家和发展中国家。
34 926-931 EN: We should know more about our world. My neighbor knows 200 types of wine. He knows every detail about them. He knows the name of the grape, and the temperature for brewing. I only know two types of wine, red and white. (Laughter) But my neighbor only knows two types of countries, developed and developing.
35 938-943 ZH: 发展的过程是多维的。 每个人都有自己的偏好。 如果你为企业部门工作，你会偏爱小额贷款。 如果你在非政府组织工作 你更喜欢讨论男女平等。 如果你是教师，你会首推联合国教科文组织，等等。 在全球发展的层面，我们必须要有超过我们自我需求的东西。
35 938-943 EN: Development is multidimensional. Everyone has their own preferences. If you work for the private sector, you will prefer small loans. If you work for a non-governmental organization, you will love gender equity. If you are a teacher, you will love UNESCO, etc. On the global development level, we need to care about things more than our own needs.
36 968-974 ZH: 还有文化，我想把文化放在最重要的位置，因为文化给我们的生活带来欢乐，给生活赋予了意义。 看上去不可能的事情是可能实现的。 即使是非洲也能做到。 那些图表已经证明这一点。 这就是今天我的演讲最重要的内容：看上去不可能的事情是可能实现的。 明天的世界会更美好。
36 968-974 EN: And culture. I want to put culture at the most important position because it is culture that brings joy to our lives, and gives life meaning. Seemingly impossible things are possible. Even Africa can do it. These diagrams have proven that. This is the most important point of my talk: seemingly impossible things are possible. Tomorrow’s world will be a better place.
37 1012-1016 ZH: 嗯，我们发现，当你回溯时间， 宇宙会越来越热 越来越致密，越来越单一。 现今为止我不能告诉你我为什么知道这个，不过事实貌似就是如此。 所以，回到宇宙形成初期 我们认为它是非常简单易懂的。 所有繁复的衍生，所有这些美妙的事物--包括人脑--都是一个古老，苍凉而又精密的宇宙的产物。 在宇宙的起点，第一个十亿分之一秒，我们相信，或者我们发现，它是非常纯粹的。
37 1012-1016 EN: Well, we discovered that, when you look back in time, the universe is hotter and hotter, denser and denser, simpler and simpler. Right now we can’t tell you the exact reason why I know this, but this is likely to be the case. So back to the early stage of the universe, we believe it’s simple to be understood. All complex lives, all these beautiful things -- including the human brain -- are the product of an old, cold, and sophisticated universe. At the start of the universe, the first billionth of a second, we believe, or we will discover, is very pure and simple.
38 1153-1156 ZH: 但我对这个项目感兴趣还有部分原因是因为，我开始注意到我们人类已经意识到，有很多物种因为人类无止尽的扩张，将会在地球上灭绝。 但貌似没人对那些，还生存在世上的物种有所关心--它们都还真正地活着。 这里我指的是那些长期与人共处， 并适应了人类生态系统的动物。 这样的动物包括老鼠、蟑螂、乌鸦。 而假如你仔细观察的话，你会发现所有的这类动物都已经对人类社会产生了高度的适应性，并且随着继续与人生活在一起，它们的适应性还加变得更强。
38 1153-1156 EN: But my interest in this program is also partly because I started to notice that we are aware that many species are going extinct on earth due to human’s endless expansion. But it seems like no one is paying attention to the species that are still on earth -- they are still living. I mean the species that have learned to live with people and have adapted to human’s ecological system. These animals include rats, cockroaches, and crows. And if you look closer, you find that these animals have become highly adaptive to human societies, and as they continue to live with people, their adaptiveness has become stronger.
39 1157-1161 ZH: 但反观人类呢，我们只是一直在不断屠杀它们而已。 为了做到这点，人类用喂养的方式来让它们寄生于我们。 我们给了动物们适应新环境的各种理由。 比如：老鼠的生育能力变得超强。 而蟑螂，逮过蟑螂的人都知道， 它们已经不在乎我们的“诱饵”了。
39 1157-1161 EN: But looking at us humans, we just keep killing them all the time. To do this, people breed them to be parasites for us. We gave animals all kinds of reasons to adapt to new environments. For example, rats’ reproductive capabilities have become extremely strong. And for cockroaches, people who have tried to catch cockroaches know that they no longer care about our baits.
40 1167-1174 ZH: 你在地球上任何一处角落--除了两极和南美至南端--都可以见得到乌鸦。 通常它们的栖息地离人类居所不出5公里。 虽然你也许不会想到这一点， 可是它们确确实实一直都这么活在我们身边。 这也不奇怪，我们的地球上人口暴涨， 其中有半数以上居住在城市。 除此之外，90%的人口增长就都发生在城市里。 乌鸦这个种群也在经历同样的发展。 所以鸟类的数量在我们看来将会有一个爆炸型的增长。 这并没有什么奇怪的。
40 1167-1174 EN: At anywhere on earth -- except for the Arctic and the southmost part of South America -- crows can be found. Normally they live within five kilometers from human residence. Although you might have not thought of this, they did just live right next to us all the time. This is not surprising, given that the population on our planet is booming, half of which lives in the city. Besides, 90 percent of population growth happens in the city. The species of crow is also evolving the same way. So in our opinion, the number of birds will also boom. This is not surprising.
41 1194-1197 ZH: 大家也可能听过各种各样的关于乌鸦的趣闻吧。 比如，在瑞典， 那里的乌鸦会趁渔人往冰隙里放钓钩的时候守在一边。 当渔人走了， 它们就飞过去拉起钓钩，吃掉钩上的鱼或钓饵。 这可是搞得那里的渔人很烦恼。
41 1194-1197 EN: People may have heard all kinds of stories about crows. For example, in Sweden, the crows there will wait by the fishermen’s side when they drop the lines through gaps in the ice. When the fishermen leave, they fly over, lift the lines, and eat the fish or the bait on the hook. This makes fishermen there pretty annoyed.
42 1198-1204 ZH: 而在华盛顿大学， 那里的研究员几年前做了一个截然不同的实验。 他们在校园里捉来一些乌鸦， 在实验室里加以标记、称量， 然后把它们放走。 而随后的那个星期， 他们惊喜地发现，那些被放走的乌鸦在校园里一见到那些捉过它们的学生， 就会冲着他们鸣叫， 并在他们周围飞来飞去，给他们的生活增添一些小烦恼。 但之后几个星期还是如此，他们就不再那么惊喜了。 甚至到了下个月，到了夏季学期结束， 到了他们毕业离校了--我相信他们是很高兴地离去的--可当他们偶尔回校来看看时，那些乌鸦还是记得他们。 所以--大家看到了吧，千万别惹乌鸦。
42 1198-1204 EN: At University of Washington, the researchers there did a completely different experiment several years ago. They caught some crows on campus, labeled them in the lab, weighted and measured them, and then let them go. And in the following weeks, they were surprised to find that for those crows which were let go, as soon as they saw the students who caught them, they barked loudly to the students. They flew around the students and made their lives a bit more annoyed. After several weeks it was still like that, although the students were not so surprised. The crows continued to the next month, the end of summer term, and even until the students graduated - I believe they left happily - but when they come back to campus from time to time, the crows still remember them. So, we have learned this, don’t mess with the crows.
43 1208-1212 ZH: 视频：在新的城市环境中， 乌鸦们的谋生技能正在变得越来越娴熟。 这是一座日本城市， 这里的乌鸦发明了一种吃果仁的办法--把坚果丢到车道上。 然后飞走， 等待汽车开过。 之后它们在马路边等待红灯。 然后飞到马路中央安全地衔走那颗果仁。
43 1208-1212 EN: Video: In a new city environment, the living skills of crows have become more adept. In this Japanese city, the crows here invented a way to eat nuts -- they drop the nut on the traffic lanes, and then fly away and wait for cars to drive by. And then they wait for the traffic light to stop, and collect the cracked nuts safely in the middle of the road.
44 1262-1268 ZH: 我们的眼光可以放远一点： 我觉得我们可以训练乌鸦来做其他事。 比如，为何不可以通过训练，让乌鸦给体育馆捡垃圾？ 或者让它们帮助我们从大堆的废弃电子元件里头挑出有用的部件？ 又或者让它们参与搜救工作？ 我这个演讲的主要的一个观点是我们可以寻找到一种与此类动物共存的途径。 我们能找到与其他族群共处的方式 而不仅仅是灭绝它们， 我们可以和它们实现共赢。
44 1262-1268 EN: We should look a bit further: I think we can train crows to do other things. For example, why not train crows to pick up trash in a stadium? Or use them to help us pick out useful parts from piles of discarded electronic components? Or let them help in rescue missions? One of the main points of my talk is that we can find ways to coexist with them. We can find ways to coexist with other species and not just kill them to extinction, and by coexisting we can achieve a win-win.
45 1325-1329 ZH: 当时CNN的人找到我，对我说：赛利格曼教授， 您能不能跟我们谈谈心理学发展的现状？ 我们想采访你在这方面的看法。我便说：好啊。 她说：可是这是CNN，所以你只能很精练地讲一小段话。 我便说：那么我究竟能讲几个字？ 她说：一个字。
45 1325-1329 EN: When people from CNN came to me and said, "Professor Seligman, would you like to talk to us about the current developments of psychology? We’d like to interview you about your thoughts on this." So I said: "Great." And she said, "But this is CNN, so you can only share a small paragraph succinctly." So I said, "How many words can I say then?" She said: "Just one."
46 1344-1350 ZH: 那么，为什么说心理学的现状好呢？ 因为在过去60多年里，心理学建立起了一个疾病模型。 10年前，坐飞机的时候我向邻座自我介绍，告诉他们我的职业，他们会挪得离我远一点。 因为他们认为，也有理由认为，心理学的目标就是找出你哪里有问题，找出谁是疯子。 而现在如果我告诉人们我的职业，他们会想凑近我。 心理学好在哪里？美国国家精神卫生研究所投资300亿美元的效果在哪里，建立疾病模型的效果在哪里，心理学自身的意义好在哪里？就在于60年前所有失调都没办法治疗，人们毫无办法。 而现在其中有14种都可以治疗，其中2种还可以治愈。
46 1344-1350 EN: So, why do we say the current state of psychology is good? Because in the past 60 years, psychology has built a disease model. 10 years ago, on an airplane I introduced myself to my neighboring seat, told him about my job, and they’d move away from me. Because they think, and have the reason to think that the goal of psychology is to find out what problem you have, and find out who’s crazy. But now if I tell people about my job, they will move closer to me. What’s good about psychology, the 30 billion dollar investment made by the NIMH, the use of building disease models, and what psychology actually means? It’s about that 60 years ago, all disorders were not treatable, and there was nothing people could do, but now 14 of them are treatable and two of them are curable.
47 1351-1358 ZH: 另一点是一门科学发展起来了，一门研究精神疾病的科学。 我们发现我们可以对抑郁、酗酒这些模糊的概念进行精确的测量。 我们可以对精神疾病进行分类。 我们可以了解精神疾病的前因后果。 我们可以在很长的时间跨度里观察一些人，比如在基因上对精神分裂症易感的人群，我们想知道后天照顾和先天基因在这其中扮演的角色。我们可以通过对这个精神疾病的实验，分离出导致精神疾病的变量。 最棒的一点是，在过去50年里我们发明了药物疗法和心理疗法。 并且我们可以通过安慰剂对照组实验对这些疗法进行精确的测试，把没用的去掉，留下有用的。 结论是：在过去的60年里，心理学和精神病学研究真的可以为痛苦的人减少痛苦。
47 1351-1358 EN: Another point is that one science has been developed. A science researching on mental illness. We discovered that we can accurately measure blurry concepts such as depression and alcoholism. We can classify mental illnesses. We can understand the cause and effect of mental illnesses. We can monitor people for a very long time period, for example people who are susceptible to schizophrenia, and find out what roles acquired care and inherited genetics play in this. We could also isolate the variables that cause mental illness through this experiment. The best thing is, over the last 50 years, we invented drug treatments and psychological treatments. And through the placebo control group and treated experimental group, we can accurately test these treatments, throw out the useless, and keep the useful. The conclusion is: in the past 60 years, psychological and psychiatric research can really make those who are in pain less miserable.
48 1360-1369 ZH: 但这也带来不好的东西，例如以下三个后果。 第一个是道德上的。心理学家和精神病学家把人当作受害者研究、把人病态化。我们一度认为人在疾病面前无能为力。 我们忘了人们是会做选择、做决定的。 我们忘记了人是可以承担责任的，这是第一个代价。 第二根损失是我们忘记了你们这些人。 我们忘记了要去提高正常人的生活。 我们忘了使正常人更快乐、更充实、更有效率。天才、高智商变成了贬义词。 没有人去研究天才了。 疾病模型的第三个问题是我们急于帮助得病的人，我们匆忙地去修补损伤，我们从没想过要发展干预措施、积极的干预措施 让人们更加快乐。 这是不好的。
48 1360-1369 EN: But it also brought bad things, for example, the following three consequences. First was moral. Psychologists and psychiatrists treated people as victims for research, and continue to victimize people. We once thought people are hopeless in front of diseases. We forgot people can make choices and decisions. We forgot people can take responsibilities. This is the first cost. The second cost is we forgot people like you. We forgot to improve normal people’s lives. We forgot to make normal people happier, more fulfilled, and more productive. Genius and high IQ have become a negative word. No one wants to research geniuses. The third problem with the disease model is we are eager to help those who are sick, and we rush to fix damages, but never think of precautions. Proactive precautions make people happier. This is bad.
49 1371-1376 ZH: 第一是心理学不仅要关注人的弱点 还要关注人的优势。 不仅要致力于修复损伤，还要致力于给人力量。 应该对生活中最好的东西感兴趣。 应该在关注病人的同时努力让正常人以及“天才”们的生活更加美好。 我们希望积极心理学在未来能像过去10年这样，作为一门科学逐渐发展起来，这门科学研究什么让生活变得值得一过。 研究发现我们可以测量不同形式的幸福。
49 1371-1376 EN: First, psychology not only needs to focus on people’s weakness, but also focus on people’s strength. It should not only heal the wounds, but also give people strength. It should pay interest to the best things in life. It should make the lives of normal people and "genius" better while paying attention to patients. We hope positive psychology can be developed as a science just like the past decade. This is a science that studies what makes life worth living. Research has found out we can measure different forms of happiness.
50 1382-1386 ZH: 大约六年前，我们转而问。 特别幸福的人和其他人有什么区别？ 结果是只有一个区别。 他们不比别人更笃信宗教，身材不比别人好，他们不比别人富裕，也不比别人好看，他们的生活中并不是成功比挫折多。 他们唯一的区别是非常善于和人相处。
50 1382-1386 EN: Around six years ago, we turned to ask. What is the difference between very happy people and the others? It turns out there is only one difference. They are not more religious, they are not in better shape, they are not richer, they are not better looking, they do not have more success than failure in life. The only difference is that they are very good at getting along with people.
51 1392-1395 ZH: 从佛祖到托尼•罗宾斯（美国潜能激励大师），人们在过去一个世纪里。从各个角度已经提出过大约120种，据说能让人更加幸福的干预措施。 我们已经可以操作其中的许多种，我们可以进行随机指派，研究这些干预措施的有效性。 也就是说，究竟哪些措施真的可以让人们持久提升幸福感？
51 1392-1395 EN: The work spans across one century, from the Buddha to Tony Robbins (a master on potential invoking in America). Around 120 intervention ways to make people happier have been proposed from various aspects. We can already operate on many of them, and we can randomly assign and explore the effectiveness of these interventions. That is to say, what measures can really improve people's happiness in the long run? 
52 1399-1404 ZH: 我认为有三种不同的幸福人生，之所以说它们不同，是因为他们来自于不同的干预措施，人们可以拥有其中一种而不拥有另一种。 第一种幸福生活是快乐的人生。 在这样的生活里你的积极情感多得不能再多了，你增强这些感情的技能也多的不能再多了。 第二种是参与的人生，你努力地工作、带孩子、恋爱、休闲，时间为你停止。 亚里士多德谈过的就是这种人生。 第三种是有意义的人生。
52 1399-1404 EN: I think there are three kinds of happy life caused by different intervention measures, and people can have one of them without another. The first one is a happy life. In such a life, you have too much positive emotion, and too many skills to strengthen it. The second is a life of participation, where you work hard, raise your children, fall in love, relax, and time stops for you. This is the kind of life that Aristotle talked about. The third is a meaningful life.
53 1406-1412 ZH: 第一种人生是愉快的人生，你所拥有的快乐多得不能再多了，你的积极情绪多得不能再多了，你学习快乐的技巧，在时间和空间里放大快乐。 但是快乐的人生有三个缺点，这也就是积极心理学区别于“快乐心理学”的地方。 第一个缺点是，你所体会到的积极情绪有50%是遗传的，这种情绪不容易更改。 所以马修和我还有其他人，所使用的让人们有更多积极情绪的方法，有15%到20%都是在遗传范围内让人们发掘潜质的小把戏。 第二个缺点是人们很快就能适应积极情绪。 就像法式香草冰淇凌，第一口是100%的美味，但到了第六口，就没有味道了。 第三点，正如我说过的，积极情绪很难改变。
53 1406-1412 EN: The first kind of life is a happy life, you have too much happiness and too many positive emotions, and you learn the skills to be happy, and use them to magnify the happiness in time and space. But there are three downsides to a happy life, and this is where positive psychology differs from "happiness psychology." The first downside is that 50% of the positive emotions you experience are genetic and cannot be easily changed. So 15 to 20 percent of the methods that Matthew and I and others use to get people to have more positive emotions are little tricks that get people to their potential within the genetic spectrum. The second downside is that people quickly adapt to positive emotions. It's like French vanilla ice cream, the first bite is 100% delicious, but by the sixth bite, the taste is gone. Third, as I said, positive emotions are hard to change.
54 1414-1420 ZH: 我得跟你们说说我的朋友兰，让你们知道积极心理学不仅是关于积极情绪，不仅是要创造快乐。 还没到30岁，兰就在生活三个方面中的两个取得了巨大成功，第一个是工作方面。 不到20岁他就是个期权交易家。 不到25岁他就成了百万富翁，同时是一家期权交易公司的经理。 第二个是休闲方面：他是全国桥牌比赛冠军。 但是在第三个方面，爱情，兰却彻底失败。 原因就在于他对人非常冷淡（像一条冷冰冰的鱼）。
54 1414-1420 EN: I need to talk with you about my friend Len, to let you know that positive psychology is not only about positive emotions or creating happiness. Before reaching 30 years old, Lan has achieved great success in two of the three areas of life, the first being work. Before he was 20 he was an options trader. Before he was 25, he was a millionaire and manager of an options trading firm. The second is recreational: he was a national bridge champion. But Len totally failed in the third, which is love. The reason being he was too cold to people (like an iced fish).
55 1441-1449 ZH: 举一个例子：我曾经研究过一个在商店里工作的装袋工。 她很不喜欢这份工作。 她同时在读大学。 她最大的优势是善于交际，所以她很努力地，让每个客人见到她就一整天心情好。 很显然她失败了。 但是她随后用在工作上尽量多地重新利用她最大的优势。 你从中得到的并不是微笑。 你看起来不像黛比·雷诺斯。 你不经常咯咯地笑，你得到的是更加投入的精神。
55 1441-1449 EN: Here's an example: I once studied a bagger who worked in a store. She did not like this job. She was in college at the same time. Her biggest advantage is being sociable, so she tried to make the customers who saw her happy for the whole day. Obviously, she failed. But then she repurposed as much of her greatest strengths as she could at work. It is not smiling you get. You don't look like Debbie Reynolds. You don't giggle as often, what you get is a more engaged spirit.
56 1457-1462 ZH: 我们做很严密的测试。 就像我们测验哪些药物有效一样。 我们随机分配，有些人分在服用安慰剂的控制组，我们用各种干预措施做长期研究。 想找到有效果的干预措施，我们向被测试者介绍什么是快乐的生活，如何在生活中找到更多快乐，你的任务之一是利用你的细心和风趣，来设计美好的一天。 把下个星期六空出来，给自己设计美好的一天，用风趣和细心增强这些快乐。 我们可以证明，如此快乐感真的提升了。
56 1457-1462 EN: We did very solid tests. It is like testing the effectiveness of medicine. We randomly assigned people, with some people in a placebo control group, and we did long-term studies with various interventions. To explore effective intervention, we introduced to subjects what is a happy life, how to find more happiness in life, with one of your tasks is to use your thoughtfulness and wit to design a good day. Set aside next Saturday to design a beautiful day for yourself, enhancing these pleasures with wit and care. We can attest that a sense of well-being really improves with those practices.
57 1463-1470 ZH: 另一项干预措施是感恩访问，现在如果你愿意，请跟着我做。 闭上眼睛。 我要你记起一个曾经做过很重要的事情，一个往好的方向改变了你一生，而你从来没有正式感谢过的人。 必须是个还健在的人。 现在，好的，睁开眼睛。 我希望你们每个人都找到了这么一个人。 你在完成感恩访问这个任务的时候，得给那个人写一封300字的感谢信，给他们打电话，跟他们说你要拜访他们，不要说为什么，登门就行了，然后你读感谢信给他们听——每个人在这种情况下都会掉眼泪。 一个星期之后，一个月之后，三个月之后，我们再进行测试，发现这些人变得更开心、不那么抑郁了。
57 1463-1470 EN: Another intervention is gratitude visit, now if you will, please follow me. Close your eyes. I need you to recall someone who did a very important thing which changed your life in a positive direction, but you did not formally thank. It must be someone who is still alive. Okay, now open your eyes. I hope everyone finds such a person. To complete this gratitude visit task, write a 300-word thank letter, and call them to say you are paying a visit, but don't say why, just visit the person, then you read the letter -- everyone would weep in such a scenario. After a week, a month, or three months, we test again, and find these people to be happier and less depressed.
58 1471-1477 ZH: 另一个例子是优势约会，我们找来一对对伴侣，让他们在优势测试中明确自己最大的优势，然后我们为他们设计一个双方都能利用自己优势的夜晚，我们发现这样可以增进他们的关系。 “趣味对慈善”也是一种方法。 这种方法对在座各位不大适用，因为你们中的很多人已经投身慈善了。 不过，我教的本科生和我的测试对象还不了解这其中的奥妙，于是我让他们做些帮助他人的事，再做些有趣的事，进行比较。 你会发现，当你做有趣的事的时候快乐很快消退。 当你慈善地帮助别人的时候，快乐的感觉长久不退。 这些就是积极干预的例子。
58 1471-1477 EN: Another example is advantage dating. We found a couple, and let them confirm their biggest advantage in the advantage testing, then we design a night where both can utilize their advantage for them, we found this improves their relationship. "Fun vs Charity" is also an approach. This approach will not work well for you here because many of you are already involved in philanthropy. However, the undergrads I teach and my test subjects don't yet understand how this works, so I ask them to do something that helps others, and something interesting, to compare. You'll find that when you're doing something fun, the joy wears off quickly. When you help others charitably, the joyful feeling lasts much longer. These are examples of positive intervention. 
59 1481-1488 ZH: 我们在15个副本里研究了几千个人，我们想知道，对快乐的追求，对积极情绪、快乐生活的追求，对参与的追求、对忘记时间的状态的追求，对人生意义的追求，在何种程度上影响我们对人生的满意度？ 结果出人意料。 研究显示，对快乐的追求基本上不影响我们对人生的满意度。 对意义的追求影响最大。 对参与的追求影响也很大。 如果你已经到达了参与和有意义的状态，那么快乐就可以给你的人生锦上添花。 也就是说如果三者都有，完整的人生超过各个部分的总和。 相反地，如果这三者你都没有，生活就比各个部分的总和还要空虚。
59 1481-1488 EN: We studied thousands of people in 15 replicas, and we wanted to know that the pursuit of happiness, the pursuit of positive emotions, the pursuit of joyful life, the pursuit of participation, the pursuit of the state of forgetting time, and the pursuit of meaning in life, to what extent does it affect our satisfaction with life? The outcome was unexpected. Research shows that the pursuit of happiness has little effect on our satisfaction with life. The search for meaning has the greatest impact. The pursuit of participation also has a strong impact. If you've reached a state of engagement and meaning, being happy can add to your life. That is to say, if all three are present, the complete life is more than the sum of its parts. In contrast, if you don't have all three, life is emptier than the sum of its parts.
60 1489-1492 ZH: 我们现在要问的是，身体健康、患病率，寿命、生产力等，是否也存在同样的现象？ 比如在一家公司里，生产力是积极情绪、奋斗和意义的共同作用吗？ 健康是积极情绪、快乐，和意义的共同作用吗？ 我们有理由相信两者的答案可能都是肯定的。
60 1489-1492 EN: Now we ask, does the same phenomenon exist in physical health, sick rate, lifetime, productivity, and so on? For instance in a company, is productivity affected jointly by positive emotions, struggling, and meaning? Is health affected jointly by positive emotions, happiness, and meaning? We have reasons to believe the answers to both questions are yes.
61 1499-1506 ZH: 30年前我刚开始从医的时候 我想如果我有能力给人减少抑郁，减少焦虑，减少愤怒，那我就让他们快乐了。 事实并非如此，最佳疗效只能是让病人归零。 但他们内心空虚。 其实快乐的技能、快乐生活的技能，参与的技能、找到意义的技能，和减少痛苦的技能是不一样的。 我相信，同样的情况，也存在于科技、娱乐和设计上。 也就是说，这三种动力都能用来增加人们的幸福感和积极情绪，人们也确实在这样使用它们。 但是如果你像我一样分解快乐，你会发现快乐不只是积极情绪——那是不够的——快乐还包括生活的心流以及人生的意义。 正如劳拉莉告诉我们的 设计、娱乐和科技也可以用来增强人生的意义和参与。
61 1499-1506 EN: When we began to treat patients 30 years ago, I thought if I could decrease people's depression, anxiety, or anger, I would make them happy. But that is not the truth, the best treatment can only make patients disappear. But their hearts are hollow. In fact, the skills for happiness, participation, finding meanings, are different from the skills to ease pain. I believe the same situation happens to technology, entertainment, or design. That is, all three drives can be used to increase people's happiness and positive emotions, and people do use them in this way. But if you break down happiness like I did, you'll see that happiness isn't just about positive emotions -- that's not enough -- it's about the flow of life and the meaning of life. As Laura Lee tells us, design, entertainment, and technology can also be used to enhance meaning and engagement in life.
62 1518-1522 ZH: 事实是：城市能带给人更多的自由，在文艺复兴时期德国人的看法，现在人们涌向上海那样的城市，但大多数搬到城市的人都是住进了贫民区。 他们不是被贫困所迫而住到那样的地方。 他们正在以最快的速度摆脱贫困呢。 他们是城市的主要建筑者，甚至可以说是城市的主要设计师。 他们所使用的基础设施都是自己搞起来的，过的也是非常丰富的都市生活。
62 1518-1522 EN: The truth: Cities give people more freedom, which is the German perception During the Renaissance, now people surge to cities like Shanghai, but most people who moved to cities ended up in the poor area. They were not forced to live there by poverty. They are getting out of poverty as fast as they can. They are the main builders of the city, and can even be said to be the main designers of the city. The infrastructure they use is built by themselves, and they live a very rich urban life.
63 1547-1556 ZH: 书籍的起源固然很重要。 让我们看看谷登堡版圣经吧，这会使得谈论书籍起源更有趣些。 大家看，一本1455年的谷登堡版圣经，多么轻便。 而谷登堡版圣经和它的印刷技术之所以有趣却不在于这本书。 想想看，这本书的产生不是由于阅读的需要。 在1455年，还没人识字呢。 那么印刷术是怎么成功的？ 这是最初的谷登堡版圣经的一页。 所以你现在看见的正是历史上最初应用活字凸版应刷的书籍之一，那是550年前的事了。 我们正活在书的最末一页，电子印刷术将会毫无疑问地取代活字凸版的年代。
63 1547-1556 EN: The origin of books are obviously important. Let's look at Gutenberg's Bible, which will make talking about the origin of books a bit more interesting. You see, a 1455 Gutenberg version of the Bible, it is really light. What makes the Gutenberg Bible and its printing techniques interesting is not the book. Come to think of it, this book wasn't born out of a need to read it. In 1455, no one could read. So how did printing techniques succeed? This is a page from the original Gutenberg Bible. So what you're looking at is one of the first books in history to be printed with movable type, that was 550 years ago. We are living on the last page of the book, and electronic printing will undoubtedly replace the era of letterpress.
64 1558-1564 ZH: 在15世纪50年代，天主教会需要用钱，因此他们印刷赎罪券，赎罪券事实上是手写在纸上的豁免权。 它们在欧洲大陆上漫天飞舞，被成百上千地出售。 它们可以帮助你早日涤罪。 在印刷机被发明之后，教会发现他们可以印刷赎罪券，也就相当于印刷纸币。 于是在1455年整个欧洲西部开始购买印刷机，来印刷成百上千，而后成千上万，而后数不胜数的单页的小纸片，声称能将你从地狱中引领入天堂。 这就是印刷机成功的原因，也是马丁路德，在教堂张贴他的90条论纲的起因，他抱怨天主教会通过印刷赎罪券并大肆在欧洲西部的每个市镇乡村疯狂售卖。 因此，女士们先生们，印刷机是被复印赎罪券的需求推动的，完全与阅读无关。
64 1558-1564 EN: In the 1450s, the Catholic Church needed money, so they printed indulgences, which were actually immunity written on paper by hand. They flew all over the European continent and are sold in hundreds. They could help you get cleansed sooner. After the printing press was invented, the church discovered that they could print indulgences, which is the equivalent of paper money. So in 1455 all over western Europe began to buy printing presses to print hundreds, then thousands, and then countless little single-page pieces of paper that claimed to lead you from hell to heaven. That's why the printing press was successful, and that's why Martin Luther, posting his 90 theses in churches, complained that the Catholic Church was printing indulgences and selling them like crazy in every town and country in western Europe. So, ladies and gentlemen, the printing press was driven by the need to copy indulgences, not at all by reading.
65 1593-1600 ZH: 例如，我们看一下，这个DNA分子模型。 我们都从没见过，但我们学过，所以知道它的存在和组成。 让我们也来看看二战时期纳粹党的恩尼格玛密电码机，这是一个编码和解码的机器。 现在你可能要问，这二者有什么关系呢？ 嗯，这个是生命的密码，这个是死亡的密码。 这两个分子，编码和解码。 而看看他们，你将会看见一台机器和一个分子。 但如果你以新的方式去看待他们，你将会发现事实上他们是有联系的。
65 1593-1600 EN: For example, let's look at this DNA molecular model. We've all never seen it, but we've learned it, so we know it exists and what it's made of. Let's also look at the Enigma machine of the Nazi Party during World War II, which was an encoding and decoding machine. Now you may be asking, what is the relationship between the two? Well, this is the code of life, and this is the code of death. The two molecules, encoding and decoding. And look at them, and you will see a machine and a molecule. But if you look at them in a new way, you'll see that they're actually connected.
66 1602-1606 ZH: 这是一个人脑模型，是吧？ 这很稀有，因为我们不总能看见人脑。 我们通常看到头骨。但它就在这儿了。 都是由于想象，一切我们所想，所感，都来自于人脑。 而一旦我们在头脑中创造了新的想法，以新的方式塑造我们的头脑，它绝不会回到原来的样子的。
66 1602-1606 EN: This is a model of a human brain, right? This is very rare, because we do not always see the brain. We usually see the skull. But it is here. It is all due to imagination, everything we think and feel are from the brain. Once we have new thoughts in the brain, or mold it in a new way, it will not return to its original form.
67 1607-1613 ZH: 我举一个简单的例子。 我们想到网络的时候，我们想到的是网络上传播的信息。 我们从不会想到那些潜在的联系。 我带来了一块煤，在这，一块煤。 那么一块煤与网络有什么联系呢？ 你看，网络需要煤产生的能量，来使每兆字节的信息在网络上传播。 所以每当你下载了一个文件，每兆字节都是一块煤。
67 1607-1613 EN: Here is a simple example. When we think of the internet, we think of the information flowing online. We never think about the implicit connections. I brought a piece of coal here, a piece of coal. So what does a piece of coal have to do with the network? You see, the web needs the energy generated by coal to power every megabyte of information that travels over the web. So every time you download a file, every megabyte is a piece of coal.
68 1621-1626 ZH: 我想起了卡伦•阿姆斯特朗的精彩演讲， 他提到真正被理解的宗教， 并非关于教义，而是关系行为。 对于乐观主义，也许我们应有同样的说法。 我们怎敢乐观？ 乐观主义有时被描绘为一种信念，一种智识上的心境。 但是像圣雄甘地的名言所说的， “你必须成为你愿意看到的变化”。 所以，我们试图以乐观心境期待的结果 并非由信念本身就能创造出来， 除非这种信念， 能带来新的行为模式。但是“行为”这个词， 我想，在这个语境下也经常被误解。
68 1621-1626 EN: I'm reminded of Karen Armstrong's amazing talk, where he said that religion, when truly understood, is not about doctrine but about relational behavior. Perhaps we should say the same about optimism. How dare we be optimistic? Optimism is sometimes described as a belief, an intellectual state of mind. But as Mahatma Gandhi famously said, "You have to be the change you want to see." So the results that we try to hope for with optimism are not created by belief itself, unless that belief leads to new behavioral patterns. But I think the word "behavior" is also often misunderstood in this context.
69 1647-1650 ZH: 这是上个秋季发生的变化， 这些变化真的让研究人员们感到焦虑。 北极冰盖的地理面积，虽然看起来不太吻合， 但实际上正好等于美国本土的面积，减去亚利桑那州的大小。 在2005年冰盖消失的面积， 和密西西比以东的所有州面积总和一样大。 去年秋季冰盖消失的面积，大约和这个同量。冰盖在冬季恢复了一些， 但此时形成的不是永久型冰盖，而是薄的冰层， 非常脆弱。剩下的冰盖可能在至少五年内的夏季全部消失。
69 1647-1650 EN: This is the change last autumn, which really worries researchers. The geographic size of the Arctic ice sheet, although it may not seem to fit, is actually exactly the size of the continental United States minus the size of Arizona. In 2005 the ice sheet lost as much area as all the states east of the Mississippi combined. About the same amount was lost by the ice sheet last fall. The ice sheet recovers somewhat during the winter, but instead of a permanent ice sheet, it forms a thin layer of ice that is very fragile. The remaining ice sheets could all disappear in the summers of at least five years.
70 1666-1669 ZH: 现在，好消息是，百分之六十八的美国人相信人类活动应该为全球变暖负责。 百分之六十九的人相信，地球正在显著地变暖。进步已经在发生了， 但要点是，当做一个清单来列举要面临的挑战时，全球变暖仍然是在接近清单的最低端。 缺少的是——紧迫感。 如果你认同事实方面的分析， 却没有感觉到紧迫感， 那你在想什么呢？ 我领导的“气候保护联盟” 与CurrentTV合作做了一个公益活动， 我们主办了世界性的广告大赛，主题是如何宣传紧迫感。
70 1666-1669 EN: Now, good news, 68 percent of Americans believe humans should be responsible for global warming. 69 percent of people believe that the earth is becoming significantly warmer. The progress is happening, but the point is, if we make a list for the upcoming challenges, global warming is still near the bottom of it. The sense of urgency is lacking. If you agree with the factual analysis but don't feel a sense of urgency, what are you thinking? The "Climate Protection Alliance" I lead cooperated with CurrentTV to do a public welfare activity. We hosted a worldwide advertising contest with the theme of how to promote a sense of urgency.
71 1698-1701 ZH: 仅有的两个没有批准京都议定书的国家 ——现在只有一个。不久前澳大利亚举行了选举。 也有了一场运动， 电视、互联网和广播广告都参与进来，来提高澳洲民众对气候变化的紧迫感的认识。 我们培训了250人来做这个幻灯片演讲， 传播到了澳大利亚的每一个小镇、村庄和城市。 很多其它的因素也有贡献， 新首相宣布他的首要措施是改变澳大利亚对京都议定书的立场，他的确做到了。澳洲清醒了， 部分是因为他们经历的恐怖的干旱。
71 1698-1701 EN: Only two countries have not ratified the Kyoto Protocol -- now only one. Elections were held in Australia not long ago. There has also been a campaign, with television, internet and radio advertising involved, to raise awareness among Australians of the urgency of climate change. We trained 250 people to do this slide presentation, and it propagated to every town, village and city in Australia. Many other factors also contributed, and the new Prime Minister announced that his first move was to change Australia's position on the Kyoto Protocol, which he indeed did. Australia woke up, partly because of the horrific drought they've been through.
72 1712-1716 ZH: 过去曾有英雄一代， 他们给地球带来了民主。 另外一代结束了奴隶制；还有一代给予了妇女投票权。 我们能做到这些。不要告诉我我们没有能力去做。 如果我们有我们在伊拉克战争中一周消耗的金钱， 我们就足以着手解决气候危机了。 我们有能力去做！
72 1712-1716 EN: There was a generation of heroes in the past who brought democracy to Earth. Another generation ended slavery; Another gave women the right to vote. We can do this. Don't tell me we are not able to do it. If we had as much money as we spent a week in the Iraq War, we would have enough to start solving the climate crisis. We are capable of doing it!
73 1751-1754 ZH: 大家有些人可能知道一句古老的非洲谚语， 谚语说，“如果你想走得快，要独行； 如果你想走得远，结伙而行。”我们必须走得快而远， 所以我们必须改变我们的意识。改变我们的信奉。一种新的危机感。 和新认识——我们具有殊荣来应对这个挑战！
73 1751-1754 EN: Some of you may know an old African proverb that says, "If you want to go fast, go alone; If you want to go far, go with friends." We must go fast and go far, so we must change our consciousness. Change what we believe. A new sense of crisis. And new understandings -- we are privileged to take on this challenge!
74 1774-1780 ZH: 举个例子，这是Herbert和他的祖母。 当我第一次看到他时，他坐在他祖母的大腿上。 他因父母双双死于艾滋而成为孤儿，他的祖母照顾他直到他也同样死于艾滋。 他喜欢坐在她的大腿上，因为他说躺在床上会觉得很痛。 当祖母起身去泡茶时，她把Herbert放在我的大腿上，我从来没有抱过这么瘦弱的孩子。 在我走之前， 我问他是否需要些什么。 我以为他会想要玩具、糖果什么的，但他想要的是拖鞋，因为他说他的脚会冷。
74 1774-1780 EN: For example, this is Herbert and his grandmother. When I first saw him, he was sitting on his grandmother's thigh. He became an orphan because both of his parents died of AIDS, and his grandmother cared for him until he too died of AIDS. He liked to sit on her lap because he said it hurts lying in bed. When the grandmother got up to make tea, she put Herbert on my lap. I had never held such a thin child. Before I left, I asked him if he needed anything. I thought he would want toys, candy or something, but he wanted slippers because he said his feet would be cold. 
75 1781-1785 ZH: 这是Joyce，一个21岁女孩的照片。 一个感染了艾滋的单亲妈妈。 我在她生下宝贝女儿Lssa的前、后为她拍照。 当我上周走在曼哈顿的拉法叶大街时，接到一个我不认识女人的电话，她跟我说年仅23岁的Joyce去世了。 现在是Joyce的妈妈在照看她的女儿，像很多因传染艾滋病而变成孤儿的津巴布韦儿童一样。
75 1781-1785 EN: This is a picture of Joyce, a 21-year-old girl. A single mother infected with AIDS. I took pictures of her before and after she gave birth to her baby girl, Lssa. As I was walking down Lafayette Avenue in Manhattan last week, I got a call from a woman I didn't know who told me that Joyce, who was only 23, had passed away. Now Joyce's mother is looking after her daughter, like many Zimbabwean children orphaned by AIDS.
76 1798-1802 ZH: 改变基因的一个方法是创造出新的基因， 就像克雷格.文特尔的优美结论所展示的那样； 而还有一个方法则是改进我们的生活习惯。 事实上我们发现，后者所涉及的改动能够较快地带来巨大的成效， 使得我们不用望断秋水般等待这些措施见效。 当你的饮食更加健康，懂得处理与释放压力，坚持锻炼，并且付出爱心的时候， 你的大脑会得到更多的供血与供氧。 不仅如此，你的大脑在体积上也会有所增长。
76 1798-1802 EN: One way to alter genes is to create new ones, as shown in Craig Venter's elegant conclusion; Another way is to improve our living habits. In fact, we found that the latter involves changes that bring huge improvement relatively quickly, without us having to wait for them to bear fruit. When you eat healthier, know how to manage and release stress, keep exercising, and give love, your brain will get more blood and oxygen supply. Not only that, but your brain will also increase in size.
77 1811-1816 ZH: 当你改进你的生活习惯的时候，皮肤的供血会更加充足， 这可以起到延缓衰老的效果，因为皮肤不那么容易起皱纹了。 你的心脏供血量也会增大，我们的研究指出，这甚至可以阻止心脏病的发作。 大家可以看到，幻灯片左上角显示的是被阻塞了的动脉， 而经过一年的健康生活以后，动脉的阻塞程度明显降低。 我们再来看左下角这张心脏的断层显像， 蓝色部分表示没有血液流通。 同样也是一年以后，我们看到大块的橙色与白色，它们正表示最大的血流量。
77 1811-1816 EN: When you improve your lifestyle habits, the blood supply to the skin will be more abundant, which can have the effect of delaying aging, because the skin is less prone to wrinkling. Your heart will also pump more blood, which as our research suggests, can even prevent heart attacks. As you can see, the upper left corner of the slide shows the blocked arteries, and after a year of healthy living, the degree of blockage in the arteries is significantly reduced. Let's turn to the tomographic image of the heart in the lower left corner. The blue part indicates that there is no blood flow. Also a year later, we see large orange and white patches which indicate maximum blood flow.
78 1820-1823 ZH: 人们的性器官也会得到更多的血液， 从而提高性能力。 在所有的禁烟广告中，最有效的一个是健康服务部所拍摄的。 这则广告上说，尼古丁不仅会由于紧缩动脉而导致心脏病或中风， 它还会导致性无能。 男性吸烟者中有一半是性无能者，事情变得不那么性感了吧？
78 1820-1823 EN: People's sex organs also get more blood, which improves sexual performance. Of all the anti-smoking ads, one of the most effective was that of the Department of Health Services. The ad said that nicotine not only caused heart attacks or strokes by constricting arteries, it also caused impotence. Half of all male smokers are impotent, things get a little less sexy right?
79 1856-1859 ZH: 在新加坡的设计曾经讨论过。这是新加坡的一个小景点，我们在那里录制了作品， 要在新加坡的超大屏幕上进行展示。 当然，这个作品是最和我意的， 因为所有的这些观点， 有一些一般，有一些有点儿深奥， 都是来自于我的日记。 我确实经常翻阅日记，并查看一下我是否曾想要改变某些状况。
79 1856-1859 EN: The design in Singapore has been discussed. This is a small spot in Singapore where we recorded our work, which is to be shown on a giant screen in Singapore. Of course, this work is the one I like the most, because all these viewpoints, some general and some a bit esoteric, are all from my diary. I do go through my diary often and see if I want to change something.
80 1884-1887 ZH: 苏联人造卫星很快成为冲击美国的三个震惊之一，历史学家称它可与珍珠港或9/11事件相提并论。 它引出了美苏两国导弹力量差距的观点。 并因此引发了两国之间的军备竞赛。 从此太空竞赛拉开帷幕。
80 1884-1887 EN: Sputnik soon became one of three shocks that hit the United States, with historians comparing it to Pearl Harbor or 9/11. It leads to the idea of the missile gap between the United States and the Soviet Union. And thus triggered the arms race between the two countries. Thus the space race began.
81 1892-1895 ZH: 但是人造卫星同样也引起了令人高兴的变化。 例如，在座中也许有人因为人造卫星而获得奖学金进入大学。 对工程，数学和科学的支持使教育得到了长足发展。 并且温顿.瑟夫认为人造卫星直接导致了ARPA以及互联网和NASA的诞生。
81 1892-1895 EN: But artificial satellites also caused some delightful changes. For example, maybe someone in this room got a scholarship to college because of Sputnik. Support for engineering, math and science has made education thrive. And Winton Cerf believes that artificial satellites directly led to the birth of ARPA, the Internet and NASA.
82 1915-1918 ZH: 穆雷盖尔：恩，我猜想现代语言一定很古老，比洞穴壁画，洞穴雕刻和洞穴雕刻更早， 在西欧洞穴中发现的软泥上的舞步痕迹所处的3万5千年前奥瑞纳时期以前，或者更早。 我很难相信他们创造了那么多东西却没有拥有现代语言。 所以我猜想真正的语言起源是来自那个时期或者这之前。 但是这也不表明所有的或者大多数现今得到确认的语言不是源自一个更年轻的，可能是2万年前的源头， 或者诸如此类的来源。这也就是我们所谓的瓶颈。
82 1915-1918 EN: Murray Gell-Mann: Well, I guess modern languages must be very old, predating cave paintings, cave engravings, and cave carvings, and the traces of dance steps on ooze found in Western European caves dates to 35,000 years before the Aurignacian period, or earlier. I find it hard to believe they created so much without owning a modern language. So I guess the real origin of the language is from that period or before that. But that also doesn't mean that all or most of the languages identified today didn't come from a younger source, maybe 20,000 years ago, or something like that. This is what we call a bottleneck.
83 26-30 ZH: 我们生活在一个数码时代，但我们依然是很模式化的生物。 信件仍然很有用。 即使我们总统本人也会每天阅读十封信，由工作人员帮忙选出来。 我可以告诉大家在我工作过的每一个行政机关，都会告诉你他们收到过的信和他们的意义。 所以你为什么不写封信呢。
83 26-30 EN: We live in a digital era, but we are still creatures with patterns. Mailing is still very useful. Even our president himself would read 10 letters, which are selected by the staff, everyday. I can tell you that every administration I've worked in will tell you about the letters they received and what they meant. So why don't you write a letter.  
84 116-122 ZH: 好，假设你现在站在美国任何一个地方的街道上，一个日本人走过来跟你说， “打扰一下，请问这栋街区叫什么名字？” 而你说，“不知道。不过，这条是橡树街，那条是榆树街。 这条是26街，那条是27街。” 他说，“哦，好的。那这栋街区叫什么名字呢？” 你说，“街区是没有名字的。 街道才有名字；街区只不过是街道之间的未命名的空间。” 他带着一点疑惑和失望离开了。
84 116-122 EN: Okay, assume you are standing on a street somewhere in the U.S., a Japanese person comes and says, "Excuse me, what is the name of this block?" Then you say, "Don't know. But, this is Oak Street and that is Elm Street. This is 26th Street and that is 27th Street." He says, "Oh, okay. Then what's the name of this block?" You can, "Blocks do not have names. Only streets have names; Blocks are just unnamed spaces between streets." He left with a bit of doubt and disappointment.
85 233-237 ZH: 现在让我们看看英国的一些数据。 这是英国政府的数据， 完全独立的网站， 我的钱花到哪里去了.这个网站让任何人在网站上利用其数据。 你可以根据特别的消费种类来查找，也可以找出不同的地区的数据来做比较。 英国人正在用英国政府提供的数据资料做这些事情。
85 233-237 EN: Now let's look at some data in England. This is UK government data, a completely separate website, Where Does My Money Go. It allows anyone to use their data on the website. You can search according to a particular type of consumption, or you can find data from different regions for comparison. The British are doing these things with data provided by the British government.
86 276-283 ZH: 这是一个早产儿。 看起来，他似乎在安睡，但实际上，他正与死神作斗争。 因为他无法调节自己的体温。 这个婴儿实在太小了， 他没有足够的脂肪来维持体温。 很悲哀，每年都有两千万这样的婴儿诞生在世界上。 其中的四百万无法存活。 但更严重的问题是，如果他们侥幸存活，一些慢性病将伴随他们一生。 因为在婴儿诞生的第一个月，他们唯一要做的就是成长。 如果体温不稳定，器官不能正常发育，随之而来的，就是一连串健康问题，如糖尿病，心脏病， 或弱智。
86 276-283 EN: This is a premature baby. It looks like he is sleeping peacefully, but in fact, he is fighting death. Because he can't regulate his body temperature. The baby is so small that he doesn't have enough fat to maintain his body temperature. Sadly, 20 million such babies are born in the world every year. Four million of them did not survive. But the more serious problem is that if they survive by chance, some chronic diseases will accompany them for a lifetime. Because in the first month of a baby's life, the only thing they have to do is grow. If the body temperature is unstable, organs cannot develop normally, and a series of health problems follow, such as diabetes, heart disease, or mental retardation.
87 285-292 ZH: 给婴儿保暖是恒温箱的主要功能。 但传统的恒温箱需要电源，且售价高达2万美元。 在发展中国家的偏远地区，恒温箱根本不存在。 因此，父母们只能就地取材， 如在早产儿身体周围绑上热水壶，或如你们所看的这张图，将早产儿放在灯泡下--这些方法效果差，且不安全。 我多次亲眼目睹这些惨剧。 头几次去印度时，我遇到了这样一位年轻的女性，Sevitha， 她刚刚诞下了一个瘦小的早产儿，Rani。 她带着孩子去了村子里最近的诊所， 医生建议她带Rani去市区的医院，把Rani放在恒温箱里。 但去医院要花四个多小时。 Sevitha没办法去，于是，她的宝贝走了。
87 285-292 EN: Keeping babies warm is the main function of an incubator. But traditional incubators require a power source and cost up to $20,000. In remote areas of the developing world, incubators simply do not exist. So parents have to rely on local materials, such as strapping a hot water bottle around the body of the premature baby, or as you can see in this picture, placing the premature baby under the light bulb -- these methods are ineffective and unsafe. I have witnessed these tragedies many times. On my first few trips to India, I met such a young woman, Sevitha, who had just given birth to a small, premature baby, Rani. She took the child to the nearest clinic in the village, and the doctor advised her to take Rani to the hospital in the city and put Rani in an incubator. But it would take more than four hours to get to the hospital. Sevitha couldn't go, so her baby was gone. 
88 311-316 ZH: 在设计中，我们遵循了一些基本的法则。 我们急用户之所急，想用户之所想， 了解Sevitha他们的需求。 我们努力挖掘问题的根源，不受表面现象的影响。 我们希望寻找最简单的方法来解决问题。 这样一来，我相信科技必将造福于大众。 通过简单的"温暖的拥抱"，我们可以拯救许多生命。
88 311-316 EN: In the design, we followed some basic principles. We were anxious about what users were anxious about, thought about what users thought, and understood the needs of users like Sevitha. We struggled to get to the root of problems without being influenced by superficial phenomena. We wanted to find the easiest way to solve the problem. In this way, I believe that technology will truly benefit the public. With a simple "warm hug" we can save many lives.
89 351-357 ZH: 现在有许多讨论是关于消费金融保护署的， 如何使其工作程序简单化。 我们都看到它的复杂性。 我相信我们和他们都有义不容辞的责任， 使国家重点项目清晰、透明和与大众有共鸣感。 我们无法再允许政府按照他们的表达方式进行表达。 我们无法再与协议中带有隐匿、晦涩难懂条款的公司做生意。 那么，我们如何去改变世界？ 那就是使国家重点项目清晰、透明并且简单化。
89 351-357 EN: There's a lot of discussion right now about the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, and how to simplify its work. We all observe its complexity. I believe we and they all have an inescapable responsibility to make national priorities clear, transparent and relatable. We can no longer allow governments to speak the way they say it. We can no longer do business with companies that have hidden, arcane terms in their agreements. So how do we change the world? The key is to make national priority projects clear, transparent and simple.
90 620-624 ZH: 我很喜欢周间素食这个点子。 我的碳足迹小了，我减低了污染，我对动物感觉好些了，甚至还存了一点钱。 最棒的是，我更健康了，我知道我会更长命，甚至还瘦了一些。 于是，请大家今天自问，为了你的健康，你的财富，为了环境和动物，为什么不试试做个周间的素食者呢？ 如果我们所有人都少吃一半的肉，那就像我们之中有一半人是素食者一样。
90 620-624 EN: I really like the idea of weekday veg. My carbon footprint is smaller, I reduce pollution, I feel better for animals, I even save a little money. Best of all, I'm healthier, I know that I'm going to live longer, and I've even lost a little weight. Therefore, please ask yourself, for your health, for your wealth, for the environment and animals, why not try to be a weekday veg? If all of us ate half as much meat, it would be like half of us were vegetarians.
91 629-635 ZH: 我跟一群朋友在2005年建立了一个网站， 叫做Reddit.com。 这是一个社交型新闻网站。 基本上就是说公共首页，上罗列的是目前网上风头最劲的东西。你找到一些好玩儿的， 比如说TEDTalk, 传到Reddit上，然后你的社区同好们喜欢就顶，不喜欢就踩。 首页就是这么来的。升升降降，新闻总是在换。 每天大概有50万的点击量。但这不是Reddit本身的魅力。 这其实是大家对发掘网络上新鲜事的热情。 因为最近四年我们见到了各种各样的流行语，和潮流从我们的首页开始发扬光大。
91 629-635 EN: I built a website with a bunch of friends in 2005, named Reddit.com. It's a social news website.  Basically, it is the public home page, which lists the most popular things on the Internet at present. When you find something interesting, such as TEDTalk, and post it on Reddit, and then your community members will like it and upvote it, and downvote it if they don't like it. This is how the home page comes about. Up and down, the news is always changing. There are about 500,000 hits per day. But that's not the charm of Reddit itself. This is actually everyone's enthusiasm for discovering new things on the Internet. Because in the past four years we have seen all kinds of memes and trends starting from our homepage.
92 761-764 ZH: 而我相信，最根本的教意是： 设计其实是一种交流运动。 它要求我们把我们所有的神志都放到任务中，要求我们运用最佳的思维状态，我们的感知我们的行动，来迎接我们面对的挑战。 而有的时候，一个小小的样板模型的经验，会帮助我们 将“糟了” 的那一刻变成了”哈哈”的一刻。 那造成的结果是大不同的。
92 761-764 EN: And I believe that the most fundamental lesson is the following: design is really a sport of communication. It requires us to put all our minds into the task, to use our best thoughts, our perceptions, and our actions to meet the challenges we face. And sometimes, a little boilerplate experience can help us turn that "sucks" moment into a "haha" moment. That will make a big difference.
93 781-784 ZH: 我演奏了贝多芬小提琴协奏曲的第一乐章。 当我演奏的时候 我知道Nathaniel的眼睛里有一种奥妙的变化。 好象他抓住了什么隐形的药，像是经历了化学反应，而我的演奏就是催化剂。 他的狂躁愤怒也转化成理解，安静的好奇， 和优雅。
93 781-784 EN: I played the first movement of Beethoven's Violin Concerto. When I played I knew there was a profound change in Nathaniel's eyes. It was as if he had caught some invisible drug, like he had experienced a chemical reaction, and my playing was the catalyst. His manic rage also translates into understanding, quiet curiosity, and grace.
94 823-826 ZH: 此外，大脑里面还有一组神经元， 称作运动神经元，也位于大脑的前半部分， 这组神经元是50年前的发现。 当我们要做某种运动时，这组神经元就会发射信息至相关器官。 例如，假若我这样做，我向前屈伸，然后抓住一只苹果， 一个运动神经元则会发射一组信息。 假如我向前屈伸，并回拉一件物品，另外一个神经元则会发射另一组信息以控制我的行动。
94 823-826 EN: In addition, there is a group of neurons in the brain called motor neurons, also located in the front half of the brain, and this group of neurons was discovered 50 years ago. When we perform a certain movement, this group of neurons sends messages to the relevant organs. For example, if I do this, I bend forward, and  grab an apple, a motor neuron will fire a set of messages. If I bend forward and pull back an object, another neuron fires another set of messages to control my actions.
95 828-832 ZH: 不过，里佐拉蒂他们发现，这组神经元中包含着另外一组神经元， 大约百分之二十左右。这些神经元是会当我观看他人行动时，发出与此行动一样的信息。 所以，当我向前抓住某物件时，有个神经元会发出相关信息， 可是若我观看乔做相同的动作时，另一个神经元也会发出相关信息。 这实在是令人震惊。 因为这表明，神经元也会采纳别人的观点。 几乎就是模仿了他人的动作， 有如虚拟现实仿真。
95 828-832 EN: However, Rizzolatti and his colleagues found that this group of neurons contains another group of neurons, about 20 percent. These neurons are the ones that send out the same message when I watch someone else act. So, when I grab something forward, one neuron fires, but when I watch Joe do the same thing, another neuron fires. This is really shocking. Because it shows that neurons also take in other people's perspectives. It's almost like imitating other people's actions, like a virtual reality simulation.
96 841-845 ZH: 现在，让我们从人类文化方面入手。 让我们回到七万五千年至十万年前时， 我们来观测下人类进化的过程，结果发现于七万五千年前左右，一件重大事件影响了人类的发展。 那就是，各种独特的“人类”技巧突然出现以及迅速传播。这些技巧包括工具的使用、 火的使用、房屋的出现和语言交流， 以及读取他人心思的能力和理解他人的行为。 这一切都相对地较快发生。 原始人类的大脑形状大约于四至五十万年前就已经发育至今人的形状， 不过这些事件则是十万年前才快速地发生。 
96 841-845 EN: Now, let us start with human culture. Let us go back to 75,000 to 100,000 years ago, observe the process of human evolution, we find that around 75,000 years ago, a major event affected the development of human beings. That is, the sudden emergence and rapid dissemination of various special "human" skills. These skills include the use of tools, the use of fire, the presence of houses and verbal communication, as well as the ability to read other people's minds and understand their behavior. This all happened relatively quickly. The shape of human brains developed into the current shape about 40,000 to 500,000 years ago, but these events happened rapidly 100,000 years ago.  
97 850-853 ZH: 若要使一只北极熊进化出一件外衣， 则需要他们经过数千代的传承，或许需要十万年方能得出外衣。 一个人类小孩，则仅需观看他的父母如何屠杀另一只北极熊， 将其剥皮拆骨，用来制造外衣。 小孩因此可以快速掌握这一技能。 北极熊需要十万年才得以进化出外衣， 人类小孩仅仅要五分钟或者十分钟就学会了。 当他们学会之后，这项技能将以燎原之势散播于他们的氏族当中。 这就是本源。文化就是模仿复杂的行为活动，而文明则产于此。
97 850-853 EN: For a polar bear to evolve a coat, it would take them thousands of generations, perhaps 100,000 years, to develop the coat. A human child simply needs to watch his parents slaughter another polar bear, skin and bone it to make a coat. The child can thus quickly master this skill. It took polar bears 100,000 years to evolve a coat, a human child can learn it in five or ten minutes. After they learn it, the skill will spread like wildfire among their clan. This is the source. Culture is the imitation of the complex behaviors from which civilization is born. 
98 1403-1410 ZH: 我想说的是，面临挑战不失为一件好事。 面对逆境，我们不应把它当成障碍绕过它，从而继续我们的生活。 其实，逆境是我们生活的一部分。 我把逆境想象成我自己的影子。 有的时候它看起来很大，有的时候很小，但是它始终在我身边。 当然，我不是试图贬低人们与逆境作斗争的价值和意义。 我们在一生中注定要经历逆境与挑战，我们每个人都是，但是我们所关注的问题并不是你是否要去面对逆境，而是如何去面对它。 所以，我们的责任不是简简单单地让我们关心的人生活在温床里 而是让他们能够形成从容应对逆境的能力。
98 1403-1410 EN: I would say that being challenged is not a bad thing. In the face of adversity, we should not treat it as an obstacle to bypass it and move on with our lives. In fact, adversity is part of our life. I imagine adversity as my own shadow. Sometimes it looks big, sometimes it's small but it's always by my side. Of course, I am not trying to belittle the value and significance of people struggling with adversity. We are all destined to experience adversity and challenges in our lives, each of us is, but the question we are concerned with is not whether you are going to face adversity, but how you are going to face it. So our responsibility is not simply to keep those we care about living in hotbeds but to enable them to develop the ability to cope with adversity.
99 1423-1426 ZH: 今年我们庆祝了达尔文的200周年诞辰，当达尔文在150年前写物种进化论的时候，他阐明了一个关于人类特征的真理。 他说的那句话大概意思就是，能生存下来的物种，往往不是最强壮的，也不是最聪明的，而是最能适应外部环境变化的。 矛盾冲突是创造之母。 达尔文等诸位大师的著作都揭示了这一点，人类生存繁衍的能力，源自人类灵魂经历激烈斗争后的转变，就是这样。
99 1423-1426 EN: This year we celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin, when he wrote Evolution of Species 150 years ago, articulating a truth about human traits. What he said roughly meant that the species that can survive are often not the strongest or the smartest, but the ones that can best adapt to changes in the external environment. Conflict is the mother of creation. The works of Darwin and other masters have revealed this point. The ability of human beings to survive and reproduce comes from the transformation of human souls after undergoing fierce struggles.
