0 12-20 ZH: 但首先我有两件事需要事先说明。 就两件。 第一，我是加拿大人。第二，我是家中七个孩子里最小的。 在加拿大，我们有很好的医保制度。 那意味著置换髋骨是免费的。 而身为七个小孩中的老幺 任何事情都是最后一个轮到我。 我的髋骨已经折磨了我好多年。 我终于去看了医生，那是免费的。 她将我转诊给骨外科医生，那也是免费的。
0 12-20 EN: But first you need to know two things about me. Just two things. I'm Canadian, and I'm the youngest of seven kids. Now, in Canada, we have that great healthcare system. That means we get our new hips for free. And being the youngest of seven, I have never been at the front of the line for anything. OK? So my hip had been hurting me for years. I finally went to the doctor, which was free. And she referred me to an orthopedic surgeon, also free.
1 48-54 ZH: 医院的小礼品店窗上有个启事 写着“义工招募中”，恩~。 他们马上就雇佣了我。 没有按常规检查背景，不要推荐人。 他們亟需义工 因为医院礼品店里现有义工的平均年龄是75岁。 是的。他们需要一些新鲜血液。 所以很快我就穿上了鲜蓝色的义工背心 有了工作证，89岁的老伴对我进行了全面的培训。 我能独当一面了。
1 48-54 EN: In the window of the hospital's tiny gift shop there was a sign that said, "Volunteers Needed." Hmm. Well, they signed me up immediately. No reference checks. None of the usual background stuff, no. They were desperate for volunteers because the average age of the volunteer at the hospital gift shop was 75. Yeah. They needed some young blood. So, next thing you know, I had my bright blue volunteer vest, I had my photo ID, and I was fully trained by my 89-year-old boss. I worked alone.
2 112-119 ZH: 但结束前我想要问大家一个重要问题。 我们是第一代可以有办法进入探索脑内部的人类， 利用这个科技技术去了解人类的脑部及心灵。 这项技术将在未来发展成什么样子呢？ 刚好一年以前,我接待了一位高官, 此人来自美国国防部.。 他提道："在派驻外国的士兵之中,有一千六百人 至少丢了一个完整的胳膊,。 想象一下,整个胳膊！ 自美国南北战争以来,我们一直都在使用假肢来帮助他们, 这种情况一直没有改观,。 我们应该为他们做得更多.。
2 112-119 EN: But I want to leave with you the big question. We are the first generation that's going to be able to enter into, using this technology, the human mind and brain. Where will we take it? I got a visit almost exactly a year ago, a little over a year ago, from a very senior person at the Department of Defense. Came to see me and said, "1,600 of the kids that we've sent out have come back missing at least one full arm. Whole arm. Shoulder disarticulation. And we're doing the same thing we did for -- more or less, that we've done since the Civil War, a stick and a hook. And they deserve more than that."
3 202-209 ZH: 在这张地图上，所有蓝色区域的国家中 百分之20的人口年龄大于65岁。 这是现在的情况。 这是我们下一代的情况。 12000年前，人口年龄分布图 像一座金字塔，年长者在顶端。 现在，顶端基本上已经平坦了。 预计到2050年时，整个分布图会变成柱状并开始上下颠倒。 发生这种变化的原因是。 人类的平均寿命长度已经从1840年时翻了一倍 并且还在以每天5小时的速度增加。
3 202-209 EN: On this map, every country that’s colored blue has more than 20 percent of its population over the age of 65. This is the world we live in. And this is the world your children will live in. For 12,000 years, the distribution of ages in the human population has looked like a pyramid, with the oldest on top. It’s already flattening out. By 2050, it’s going to be a column and will start to invert. This is why it’s happening. The average lifespan’s more than doubled since 1840, and it’s increasing currently at the rate of about five hours every day.
4 211-218 ZH: 到2050年时，美国会有3千2百万人 年龄大于80岁，如果我们还不采取措施的话 他们中的一半会得老年痴呆症 三百万人会得帕金斯症。 当前，这类神经疾病 我们还无法治愈或预防 尽管我们每年要花费掉将近3000亿美元。 这个数字到2050年预计会超过1万亿美元。 老年痴呆症的发生就像是 本来应该折叠成正确形状的蛋白质 被胡乱揉成一团。 因此我们可以设想：能否制造 一种分子胶 把蛋白质固定成它本来的形状。 这样就可以避免在它变形的过程中缠结一团 从而破坏了大面积的脑神经。 更有意思的是：在其他一些 影响不同脑功能的神经类疾病 ，也发现了错误折叠纠缠一团的蛋白质 这就是说：原因也许是一致的 也许可以用来治疗很多神经类疾病 并不只是老年痴呆症。 另外，神经疾病还与癌症有密切关系。 因为神经疾病患者的 各种癌症的发病率都很低。
4 211-218 EN: By 2050, there’ll be about 32 million people in the United States over the age of 80, and unless we do something about it, half of them will have Alzheimer’s disease and three million more will have Parkinson’s disease. Right now, those and other neurologic diseases -- for which we have no cure or prevention -- cost about a third of a trillion dollars a year. It will be well over a trillion dollars by 2050. Alzheimer’s disease starts when a protein that should be folded up properly misfolds into a kind of demented origami. So one approach we’re taking is to try to design drugs that function like molecular Scotch tape, to hold the protein into its proper shape. That would keep it from forming the tangles that seem to kill large sections of the brain when they do. Interestingly enough, other neurologic diseases which affect very different parts of the brain also show tangles of misfolded protein, which suggests that the approach might be a general one, and might be used to cure many neurologic diseases, not just Alzheimer’s disease. There’s also a fascinating connection to cancer here, because people with neurologic diseases have a very low incidence of most cancers.
5 222-227 ZH: 同时，在等待过程中， 可以为自己做些预防。 如果你想减少患帕金森症的机率 咖啡因似乎有些作用，但没人知道为什么。 头部受伤会增加患帕金斯症的机率。 禽流感也一样。 至于预防老年痴呆症 鱼油是可以有效地 降低患老年痴呆症的风险。 另外，还应该注意保持血压 因为慢性高血压 是最有可能导致老年痴呆症的。
5 222-227 EN: In the meantime, while we’re waiting for all these things to happen, here’s what you can do for yourself. If you want to lower your risk of Parkinson’s disease, caffeine is protective to some extent; nobody knows why. Head injuries are bad for you. They lead to Parkinson’s disease. And the Avian Flu is also not a good idea. As far as protecting yourself against Alzheimer’s disease, well, it turns out that fish oil has the effect of reducing your risk for Alzheimer’s disease. You should also keep your blood pressure down, because chronic high blood pressure is the biggest single risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease.
6 236-243 ZH: 让我们先花一分钟的时间来看看伟大的传奇人物列奥纳多·达·芬奇。 我们对他的杰作是再熟悉不过了── 他的画作、他的发明、他的写作。 但我们却不知道他长什么样。 虽然关于他的著作成百上千， 但对于他的样貌，人们仍旧是充满分歧。 即使是这幅著名的肖像画，也无法得到很多艺术史学家的认可。 你们觉得呢？ 这到底是不是列奥纳多·达·芬奇的面孔呢？ 让我们一同寻找答案。
6 236-243 EN: Let's look for a minute at the greatest icon of all, Leonardo da Vinci. We're all familiar with his fantastic work -- his drawings, his paintings, his inventions, his writings. But we do not know his face. Thousands of books have been written about him, but there's controversy, and it remains, about his looks. Even this well-known portrait is not accepted by many art historians. So, what do you think? Is this the face of Leonardo da Vinci or isn't it? Let's find out.
7 244-252 ZH: 达·芬奇是一个会画身边各种事物的人。 他画过人物、人体结构、动植物、风景、建筑、江河湖海、各种事物。 但却从来没有画过脸？ 我觉得这有点让人难以置信。 他同时代的画家都画过自画像，就好比你们现在看到的这些。 正面或者是四分之三的侧面像。 所以像达·芬奇这样充满热情的画家 也一定会时不时地画些自画像。 就让我们试着把他们给找出来。 我认为如果我们仔细查阅他所有的作品， 并从中寻找自画像，我们就可以发现他的面孔。 于是我认真查看了他所有的画，700多幅， 从中寻找男士的画像。
7 244-252 EN: Leonardo was a man that drew everything around him. He drew people, anatomy, plants, animals, landscapes, buildings, water, everything. But no faces? I find that hard to believe. His contemporaries made faces, like the ones you see here -- en face or three-quarters. So, surely a passionate drawer like Leonardo must have made self-portraits from time to time. So let's try to find them. I think that if we were to scan all of his work and look for self-portraits, we would find his face looking at us. So I looked at all of his drawings, more than 700, and looked for male portraits.
8 274-280 ZH: 问题是，他们是不是依照正确的时间顺序绘制的呢？ 年轻人的画像应该是最先绘制的。 而如果你们看看这些画像创作的年份， 就会发现事实的确如此。 他们是按照正确的时间顺序绘制的。 而达·芬奇在创作这些画像的时候的年龄又是多大呢？和画中人的年龄相符吗？ 是的，完全相符。他在创作这些画像的时候分别是33岁、38岁和63岁。 也就是说，我们现在这里的三幅画像，有可能是同一个人的画像， 平且画中人和达·芬奇创作这些画像时的年龄是一致的。
8 274-280 EN: Now, are they made in the right order? The young man should be made first. And as you see here from the years that they were created, it is indeed the case. They are made in the right order. What was the age of Leonardo at the time? Does that fit? Yes, it does. He was 33, 38 and 63 when these were made. So we have three pictures, potentially of the same person of the same age as Leonardo at the time.
9 281-290 ZH: 但我们如何知道这画中之人是达·芬奇而不是别人呢？ 我们需要一个可供参考的标准。 这里是唯一一幅被广泛接受的达·芬奇的照片，。 是韦罗基奥创作的大卫雕像， 由15岁的达·芬奇当作人体模特。 如果我们把这个雕塑的脸 和之前那个音乐家的脸相比较的话，我们就会再次发现之前那些相同的特征。 这个雕像就是参考物，将达·芬奇的身份 同那三张脸联系起来。 女士们、先生们，这个故事暂未发表，。 由在座的TED观众们对之先睹为快是再为合适不过了。 伟人中的伟人终于有了脸孔。 他就是──列奥纳多·达·芬奇。
9 281-290 EN: But how do we know it's him, and not someone else? Well, we need a reference. And here's the only picture of Leonardo that's widely accepted. It's a statue made by Verrocchio, of David, for which Leonardo posed as a boy of 15. And if we now compare the face of the statue, with the face of the musician, you see the very same features again. The statue is the reference, and it connects the identity of Leonardo to those three faces. Ladies and gentlemen, this story has not yet been published. It's only proper that you here at TED hear and see it first. The icon of icons finally has a face. Here he is: Leonardo da Vinci.
10 319-326 ZH: 我遇到了霍金教授 他说他的梦想是空间旅行。 我说，我不能带你到那儿去 但是我可以让你体验失重的状态。 他说，太好了，当然可以。 那么，在地球上体验零重力的唯一方法就是 用抛物线飞行来体验。 你坐在飞机上，飞到最高处的时候你大概能体验25秒。 然后下来，你体重会加倍。 然后如此反复。 你最多可以体验八次10分钟的无重力状态 那是NASA一直用来训练他们航天员的办法。
10 319-326 EN: And I met Professor Hawking, and he said his dream was to travel into space. And I said, "I can't take you there, but I can take you into weightlessness into zero-g. And he said, on the spot, "Absolutely, yes." Well, the only way to experience zero-g on Earth is actually with parabolic flight, weightless flight. You take an airplane, you fly over the top, you're weightless for 25 seconds. Come back down, you weigh twice as much. You do it again and again. You can get eight, 10 minutes of weightlessness -- how NASA's trained their astronauts for so long.
11 341-350 ZH: 我们带他到了肯尼迪空间中心 进了NASA的车子，然后到了那架飞机上。 和我们同行的还有20位捐款的人们 我们共为儿童慈善基金募集到了十五万美金 他们将跟我们一起飞行。 有一些TED会员。 我们准备好了一切的急救措施。 飞机上还有四位急救室的医生和两位护士。 我们时刻监视着他血液中PO2的含量，他的心跳率还有血压。 我们准备好了一切的应急措施 天知道你可不想伤害到这位世界级的专家。 我们从宇宙飞船着陆点起飞 就是宇宙飞船起飞和降落的地方。 我跟我的搭档 Byron Lichtenberg 小心翼翼地扶着他进入零重力。 到了顶点我们就松手 让他真正体验无重力是什么感觉。
11 341-350 EN: We took him out to the Kennedy Space Center, up inside the NASA vehicle, into the back of the zero-g airplane. We had about 20 people who made donations -- we raised $150,000 in donations for children's charities -- who flew with us. A few TEDsters here. We set up a whole ER. We had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane. We were monitoring his PO2 of his blood, his heart rate, his blood pressure. We had everything all set in case of an emergency; God knows, you don't want to hurt this world-renowned expert. We took off from the shuttle landing facility, where the shuttle takes off and lands. And my partner Byron Lichtenberg and I carefully suspended him into zero-g. Once he was there, [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like.
12 366-372 ZH: 现时世界上有十亿儿童， 他们中的一半都没有电力资源 无论是在学校还是在家。 并且在某些国家——如阿富汗—— 75%的小女孩都不会去上学。 我所指的不是她们被学校退学 而是在她们三、四年级的时候——她们根本没去上学。 所以这三年来自从我在TED里演讲 并展示一件产品， 它从一个想法转变成 一台真正的手提电脑。 现在，我们已将五十万台手提电脑 发放到(世界各地的）儿童手上。 我们还拥有二十五万台手提电脑 正准备运送到儿童的手上， 以及二十五万台手提电脑 正被订购。 那么，大概算来，这里共有一百万台手提电脑。
12 366-372 EN: There are one billion children in the world, and 50 percent of them don't have electricity at home or at school. And in some countries -- let me pick Afghanistan -- 75 percent of the little girls don't go to school. And I don't mean that they drop out of school in the third or fourth grade -- they don't go. So in the three years since I talked at TED and showed a prototype, it's gone from an idea to a real laptop. We have half a million laptops today in the hands of children. We have about a quarter of a million in transit to those and other children, and then there are another quarter of a million more that are being ordered at this moment. So, in rough numbers, there are a million laptops.
13 376-381 ZH: 然后突然地， 这群儿童被手提电脑联系起来。 他们已超越了上一代。 这种变化是绝对具有纪念意义的， 因为这不仅仅是将这个地区开放， 而是将整个地区与世界联系起来了。 因此，他们将会进行交通建设，他们将会有电话， 而且他们还会拥有电视。 但是这群6到12岁的孩子 却在用西班牙语和当地语言上网， 所以这群孩子是被 资讯伴随着长大， 并且他们打开了一扇通向世界的门窗。 在此之前，他们是被封闭的。
13 376-381 EN: And suddenly, the kids have connected laptops. They've leapfrogged. The change is absolutely monumental, because it's not just opening it up, but it's opening it up to the rest of the world. So yes, they're building roads, yes, they're putting in telephone, yes, there will be television. But the kids six to 12 years old are surfing the Internet in Spanish and in local languages, so the children grow up with access to information, with a window into the rest of the world. Before, they were closed off.
14 386-393 ZH: 现在已得到的一些结果是什么？ 其中的一些结果 是在每个国家都能观测到的 包括老师都说 他们从来没有如此热爱教学， 以及热爱阅读 这些都是由第三方统计的结果——不是我们——明显飙升。 然而我们所见的最重要的事是 儿童在教导他们的父母。 他们有笔记电脑。他们将它们带回家。 所以当我和三位在当地学校上学的孩子见面时， 这个地方离波哥大有一天的路程， 其中一位孩子带来他的母亲。 而她带她母亲来的原因是 她这位六岁大的儿童 正在教她妈妈 如何读写。 她妈妈从没有上过小学。 这是一个怎样的倒置， 并且也是一个奇妙的例子 体现了孩子是如何作为变化的推动者。
14 386-393 EN: Now what are some of the results? Some of the results that go across every single country include teachers saying they have never loved teaching so much, and reading comprehension measured by third parties -- not by us -- skyrockets. Probably the most important thing we see is children teaching parents. They own the laptops. They take them home. And so when I met with three children from the schools, who had traveled all day to come to Bogota, one of the three children brought her mother. And the reason she brought her mother is that this six-year-old child had been teaching her mother how to read and write. Her mother had not gone to primary school. And this is such an inversion, and such a wonderful example of children being the agents of change.
15 394-400 ZH: 因此现在，作为结尾，人们问道， 为什么用手提电脑？ 手提电脑是奢侈品；就譬如给予他们iPod。不。 你们想要给予手提电脑的原因是 教育，而不是手提电脑本身。 这是教育项目，而不是手提电脑项目。 他们需要学会学习。然后，就想象一下—— 他们可以拥有，譬如说，一百本书。 在一个村庄里，有一百台手提电脑， 而且每台电脑里都有不同套的一百本书， 那么这个村庄的将会瞬间拥有一万本书。 你和我在小学的时候都没有一万本书。
15 394-400 EN: So now, in closing, people say, now why laptops? Laptops are a luxury; it's like giving them iPods. No. The reason you want laptops is that the word is education, not laptop. This is an education project, not a laptop project. They need to learn learning. And then, just think -- they can have, let's say, 100 books. In a village, you have 100 laptops, each with a different set of 100 books, and so that village suddenly has 10,000 books. You and I didn't have 10,000 books when we went to primary school.
16 401-411 ZH: 有时学校就在一棵树底下， 并且很多老师都只有小学五年级的受教育水平， 因此你需要创建一个互相学习的合作模型， 而不仅仅是建立更多所学校以及培训更多的教师， 但这也是你无论如何都要做的。 我们再次发起了“送一台，买一台”运动。 去年，我们发起的“送一台，买一台”运动， 并且创造了十万台手提电脑 使我们可以将之免费发放出去。 并且作为一台零美元的手提电脑， 我们可以将之送到一些完全无法负担的国家去。 这就是我们所做的。我们去了海地， 去了卢旺达，以及阿富汗， 还有埃塞俄比亚和蒙古。 一些没有市场的地方， 用着饱和，连接性， 低龄化等原则来看待。 而我们可以用之产生一些巨大的数字。 因此让我们这样来想： 就好像为愚昧无知 接种疫苗一样。 将手提电脑看作一种疫苗。 你不是为一小部分个体接种疫苗。 而是为整个群体接种疫苗。
16 401-411 EN: Sometimes school is under a tree, or in many cases, the teacher has only a fifth-grade education, so you need a collaborative model of learning, not just building more schools and training more teachers, which you have to do anyway. So we're once again doing "Give One, Get One." Last year, we ran a "Give One, Get One" program, and it generated over 100,000 laptops that we were then able to give free. And by being a zero-dollar laptop, we can go to countries that can't afford it at all. And that's what we did. We went to Haiti, we went to Rwanda, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Mongolia. Places that are not markets, seeding it with the principles of saturation, connectivity, low ages, etc. And then we can actually roll out large numbers. So think of it this way: think of it as inoculating children against ignorance. And think of the laptop as a vaccine. You don't vaccinate a few children. You vaccinate all the children in an area.
17 420-427 ZH: 爸爸在他生命中的最后两年，在生病的状态中， 把他对我的看法都写满在记事本上。 他写下我的长处和短处 并提出一些能助我改正的方法 同时亦引用特殊的例子，为我的生活提供反思。 在他离世后，我发现没有人再写信给我了。 书写这门艺术正渐渐地消失。 我平日会用电子邮件，也会一面思考一面打字 但为何要为了新的事物而舍弃旧有的习惯?。 为何书信和电子邮件不能与我们的生活融合在一起?。 有一段时间我因为太忙碌而没有坐下来跟我父亲聊聊天 有时，我真的很想换回那几年 然后再以那些时光来换爸爸的一个拥抱。 可是已经太迟了。
17 420-427 EN: In the last two years of his life, when he was sick, he filled a notebook with his thoughts about me. He wrote about my strengths, weaknesses, and gentle suggestions for improvement, quoting specific incidents, and held a mirror to my life. After he died, I realized that no one writes to me anymore. Handwriting is a disappearing art. I'm all for email and thinking while typing, but why give up old habits for new? Why can't we have letter writing and email exchange in our lives? There are times when I want to trade all those years that I was too busy to sit with my dad and chat with him, and trade all those years for one hug. But too late.
18 501-507 ZH: 让我从一个例子开始。 这是一所医院里的一个清洁工的工作说明， 在屏幕上滚动着。 这上面所写的东西都很平常。 这都是一些你能预料得到的事情： 扫地，清理垃圾，倒垃圾筒，进货机柜，等。 这些事的数量可能有点令人惊讶， 但是这些事的内容却很平常。 但是在这里面，有个现象，我想让你们注意： 尽管这个清单很长， 但是里面没有一条是涉及到其他人的。 一个都没有。
18 501-507 EN: Let me begin with an example. This is the job description of a hospital janitor that is scrolling up on the screen. And all of the items on it are unremarkable. They're the things you would expect: mop the floors, sweep them, empty the trash, restock the cabinets. It may be a little surprising how many things there are, but it's not surprising what they are. But the one thing I want you to notice about them is this: even though this is a very long list, there isn't a single thing on it that involves other human beings. Not one.
19 521-526 ZH: 现实世界的问题常常很暧昧和模糊， 而且问题的内容还常常变换。 一个明智的人就像爵士乐手一样， 看着歌谱演奏的时候并不会完全遵从， 会即兴创作来与当时的情形和周围的人相适宜。 一个明智的人知道如何使用道德技能 为一个正确的目的而工作。 为他人服务，而不是应付他人。 最后，也许也是最重要的， 一个明智的人不是天生的，而是后天形成的。 智慧依赖于经验， 但不是依赖于所有的经验。
19 521-526 EN: Real-world problems are often ambiguous and ill-defined and the context is always changing. A wise person is like a jazz musician -- using the notes on the page, but dancing around them, inventing combinations that are appropriate for the situation and the people at hand. A wise person knows how to use these moral skills in the service of the right aims. To serve other people, not to manipulate other people. And finally, perhaps most important, a wise person is made, not born. Wisdom depends on experience, and not just any experience.
20 541-545 ZH: 一个父亲和他七岁的儿子在棒球场看底特律虎队的比赛。 儿子给他说想喝点柠檬水 这个父亲就去商店买。 但是店里只有Mike‘s Hard柠檬水， 里面有5%的酒精含量。 这个父亲完全不知道里面（理论上来说）含了酒精。 所以他就买了回来。
20 541-545 EN: A dad and his seven-year-old son were watching a Detroit Tigers game at the ballpark. His son asked him for some lemonade and Dad went to the concession stand to buy it. All they had was Mike's Hard Lemonade, which was five percent alcohol. Dad, being an academic, had no idea that Mike's Hard Lemonade contained alcohol. So he brought it back.
21 560-567 ZH: 当事情确实做错了， 我们会用两类工具去弥补。 一类工具就是规则条例。 更多，更好的规则。 我们会寻求的第二类工具就是激励制度。 更多，更好的激励制度。 究竟还有什么其他的东西呢？ 我可以轻易的在对现在的经济危机的响应中发现。 管制，管制再管制。
21 560-567 EN: When things go wrong, as of course they do, we reach for two tools to try to fix them. One tool we reach for is rules. Better ones, more of them. The second tool we reach for is incentives. Better ones, more of them. What else, after all, is there? We can certainly see this in response to the current financial crisis. Regulate, regulate, regulate.
22 589-593 ZH: 掌声。 不要误解我的意思。我们是需要规则的！ 爵士乐手也需要一些谱子， 他们中大部分人还需要看着谱子演奏。 我们需要更多的条款来约束银行家，上帝也知道。 但是太多的规则会让熟练的爵士乐手 无法即兴创作。 最终，他们会丢失他们的天赋， 或者更坏，他们完全不再演出。
22 589-593 EN: (Applause) Don't get me wrong. We need rules! Jazz musicians need some notes -- most of them need some notes on the page. We need more rules for the bankers, God knows. But too many rules prevent accomplished jazz musicians from improvising. And as a result, they lose their gifts, or worse, they stop playing altogether.
23 601-608 ZH: 大概在15年以前的瑞士， 人们试图决定要在哪里处置核废料。 那时举行了全国性的公民投票。 一些心理学家就四处游走，向一些知识丰富的公民拉票。 他们就问：“你愿意在你的社区里放置核废料吗？”。 吃惊的是，50%的公民说愿意。 他们知道危险性。 他们也知道这将降低他们房产的价值。 但是这些废料总要放到某个地方 而且作为公民也有义务。
23 601-608 EN: In Switzerland, back about 15 years ago, they were trying to decide where to site nuclear waste dumps. There was going to be a national referendum. Some psychologists went around and polled citizens who were very well informed. And they said, "Would you be willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your community?" Astonishingly, 50 percent of the citizens said yes. They knew it was dangerous. They thought it would reduce their property values. But it had to go somewhere and they had responsibilities as citizens.
24 678-684 ZH: 他们发现这样一个事实 就是孩子需要学的的最重要的一件事 就是人格。 他们需要学习尊重自己。 他们需要学习尊重他们的同学。 他们需要学习尊重他们的老师。 最重要的是，他们需要学习尊重学习。 这是一个理论性的目标。 如果你这么做了，剩下的就像是向下的滑坡一下好走。
24 678-684 EN: That is that they have come to the realization that the single most important thing kids need to learn is character. They need to learn to respect themselves. They need to learn to respect their schoolmates. They need to learn to respect their teachers. And, most important, they need to learn to respect learning. That's the principle objective. If you do that, the rest is just pretty much a coast downhill.
25 686-690 ZH: 奥巴马呼吁美德。 我认为他是对的。 而且我认为我们最需要的美德就是实践的智慧。 因为他让其他的美德-诚实，善良，勇气等等-- 在正确的时间以正确的方式展现出来。 他还呼吁期望。 也是对的。
25 686-690 EN: Obama appealed to virtue. And I think he was right. And the virtue I think we need above all others is practical wisdom, because it's what allows other virtues -- honesty, kindness, courage and so on -- to be displayed at the right time and in the right way. He also appealed to hope. Right again.
26 750-757 ZH: 首先我们回顾一下去年的内容。 每个球代表一个国家。 X轴是生育率，每个妇女的育儿数 Y轴是平均寿命年数。 当前数据是1950年，这些是发达国家 这些是发展中国家。 那时世界是由“我们和他们”构成的。 那时候各国差距很大。 后来世界往好的方向上改变了。 这就是变化的过程。
26 750-757 EN: And let me repeat what you saw last year. The bubbles are the countries. Here you have the fertility rate -- the number of children per woman -- and there you have the length of life in years. This is 1950 -- those were the industrialized countries, those were developing countries. At that time there was a "we" and "them." There was a huge difference in the world. But then it changed, and it went on quite well. And this is what happens.
27 819-827 ZH: 回到1920年，先选定日本。 选定瑞典和美国。 我们将举办一场车赛 选手分别是黄色的福特车（美国） 红色的丰田车（日本） 和棕色的沃尔沃车（瑞典）。 （笑声） 比赛开始。 丰田车启动时的表现很差 福特车驶出了赛道。 沃尔沃表现的很不错。 二战时，丰田车跑到了赛道外 但它（很快调整好）并在健康水平高于瑞典的一侧运行 但它（很快调整好）并在健康水平高于瑞典的一侧运行。 现在它的健康水平 已经超过了瑞典。 就在那一年 我把自己的沃尔沃换成了丰田车。
27 819-827 EN: And we go back to 1920, and I want to look at Japan. And I want to look at Sweden and the United States. And I'm going to stage a race here between this sort of yellowish Ford here and the red Toyota down there, and the brownish Volvo. (Laughter) And here we go. Here we go. The Toyota has a very bad start down here, you can see, and the United States Ford is going off-road there. And the Volvo is doing quite fine. This is the war. The Toyota got off track, and now the Toyota is coming on the healthier side of Sweden -- can you see that? And they are taking over Sweden, and they are now healthier than Sweden. That's the part where I sold the Volvo and bought the Toyota.
28 832-840 ZH: 下面把我的家族史展示给大家看一下 （这张图代表今天的世界）。 Y轴代表健康水平，X轴是收入。 （这根红线）代表了我的家族。 这里是1830年的瑞典 ，我的曾曾祖母出生于这一年。 1830年的瑞典和今天的塞拉利昂一样。 我的曾祖母生于1863年。 1863年的瑞典和今天的莫桑比克一样。 我的祖母生于1891年。 是她看着我长大的 现在我给大家讲述的不是统计数据 而是我本人的家族历史。
28 832-840 EN: And let me show you my own sort of family history -- we made these graphs here. And this is the same thing, money down there, and health, you know? And this is my family. This is Sweden, 1830, when my great-great-grandma was born. Sweden was like Sierra Leone today. And this is when great-grandma was born, 1863. And Sweden was like Mozambique. And this is when my grandma was born, 1891. She took care of me as a child, so I'm not talking about statistic now -- now it's oral history in my family.
29 876-881 ZH: 现在大家所看到的是“美元街”。 所有人都住在这条街上。 上面的数字 代表居民每天的收入。 这家人每天收入1美元。 我们驾车往前走 这家人每天收入2-3美元。 继续往前走，看到街上第一个带花园的房子 他们家每天收入10-50美元。
29 876-881 EN: This we can call Dollar Street. Everyone lives on this street here. What they earn here -- what number they live on -- is how much they earn per day. This family earns about one dollar per day. We drive up the street here, we find a family here which earns about two to three dollars a day. And we drive away here -- we find the first garden in the street, and they earn 10 to 50 dollars a day.
30 896-902 ZH: 我以前的研究并不是现在的IT领域。 我在非洲工作了20年，终日奔走于饥饿的非洲农民中间 我在非洲工作了20年，终日奔走于饥饿的非洲农民中间。 这张照片记录了对“农民需求”的一项研究。 有趣的是，你在照片上分辨不出 谁是研究人员。 在贫困地区开展研究的时候 你必须和当地人生活在一起。 如果你在贫困线以下，生存就是你的全部。 必须获得食物。
30 896-902 EN: My own research has not been in IT or anything like this. I spent 20 years in interviews with African farmers who were on the verge of famine. And this is the result of the farmers-needs research. The nice thing here is that you can't see who are the researchers in this picture. That's when research functions in poor societies -- you must really live with the people. When you're in poverty, everything is about survival. It's about having food.
31 911-915 ZH: 技术支持可以帮助人们脱贫 而市场对于人们脱贫也很重要。 照片里的妇女很开心，她正把农产品运到市场上去卖。 她很感谢政府的教育投资 她学会了算术 这样在市场里不会被骗。 她也希望孩子健康 这样她可以安心去市场 而不是在家里照顾小孩。 她还希望有基础设施，有一条铺好的道路很重要。
31 911-915 EN: Technology will bring you out of poverty, but there's a need for a market to get away from poverty. And this woman is very happy now, bringing her products to the market. But she's very thankful for the public investment in schooling so she can count, and won't be cheated when she reaches the market. She wants her kid to be healthy, so she can go to the market and doesn't have to stay home. And she wants the infrastructure -- it is nice with a paved road.
32 916-919 ZH: 另外小额贷款也很有用。 小额贷款帮她买了自行车。 她还需要讯息，何时带何种农产品去市场。 而这些都是我们能实现的。
32 916-919 EN: It's also good with credit. Micro-credits gave her the bicycle, you know. And information will tell her when to go to market with which product. You can do this.
33 920-923 ZH: 非洲20年的经历让我明白 看上去不可能的事情 其实是可能的。 非洲的表现一点也不差。 50年时间里，非洲从中世纪之前的水平 发展为100年前的欧洲 并建立起国家系统。 我想说撒哈拉以南非洲地区在过去的50年中，是发展速度最快的地区 我想说撒哈拉以南非洲地区在过去的50年中，是发展速度最快的地区。
33 920-923 EN: I find my experience from 20 years of Africa is that the seemingly impossible is possible. Africa has not done bad. In 50 years they've gone from a pre-Medieval situation to a very decent 100-year-ago Europe, with a functioning nation and state. I would say that sub-Saharan Africa has done best in the world during the last 50 years.
34 926-931 ZH: 我们应该更深入了解这个世界。 我的邻居了解200种葡萄酒。 他对这些酒了如指掌。 他知道葡萄的名字，酿酒的温度。 我就知道2种葡萄酒，红的和白的。 （笑声） 但是我邻居就知道2种国家 发达国家和发展中国家。
34 926-931 EN: We have to know a little more about the world. I have a neighbor who knows 200 types of wine. He knows everything. He knows the name of the grape, the temperature and everything. I only know two types of wine -- red and white. (Laughter) But my neighbor only knows two types of countries -- industrialized and developing.
35 938-943 ZH: 发展的过程是多维的。 每个人都有自己的偏好。 如果你为企业部门工作，你会偏爱小额贷款。 如果你在非政府组织工作 你更喜欢讨论男女平等。 如果你是教师，你会首推联合国教科文组织，等等。 在全球发展的层面，我们的需求其实大同小异。
35 938-943 EN: I'm telling you that there are many dimensions of development. Everyone wants your pet thing. If you are in the corporate sector, you love micro-credit. If you are fighting in a non-governmental organization, you love equity between gender. Or if you are a teacher, you'll love UNESCO, and so on. On the global level, we have to have more than our own thing.
36 968-974 ZH: 还有文化，我想把文化放在最重要的位置 因为文化给我们的生活带来欢乐。 给生活赋予了意义。 看上去不可能的事情 是可能实现的。 即使是非洲也能做到。 那些图表已经证明这一点，看上去不可能的事情是可能实现的。 这就是今天我的演讲最重要的内容 看上去不可能的事情 是可能实现的。 明天的世界会更美好。
36 968-974 EN: And culture. Culture is the most important thing, I would say, because that's what brings joy to life. That's the value of living. So the seemingly impossible is possible. Even African countries can achieve this. And I've shown you the shot where the seemingly impossible is possible. And remember, please remember my main message, which is this: the seemingly impossible is possible. We can have a good world.
37 1012-1016 ZH: 嗯，我们发现，当你回溯时间， 宇宙会越来越热 越来越致密，越来越单一。 现今为止我不能告诉你我为什么知道这个 不过事实貌似就是如此。 所以，回到宇宙形成初期 我们认为它是非常简单易懂的。 所有繁复的衍生，所有这些美妙的事物—— 包括人脑——都是 一个古老，苍凉而又精密的宇宙的产物。 在宇宙的起点，第一个十亿分之一秒 我们相信，或者我们发现，它是非常纯粹的。
37 1012-1016 EN: Well, we found that as you look back in time, the universe gets hotter and hotter, denser and denser, and simpler and simpler. Now, there's no real reason I'm aware of for that, but that seems to be the case. So, way back in the early times of the universe, we believe it was very simple and understandable. All this complexity, all the way to these wonderful things -- human brains -- are a property of an old and cold and complicated universe. Back at the start, in the first billionth of a second, we believe, or we've observed, it was very simple.
38 1153-1156 ZH: 但我对这个项目感兴趣还有部分原因是因为 我开始注意到我们人类已经意识到 有很多物种因为人类无止尽的扩张 将会在地球上灭绝。 但貌似没人对那些 还生存在世上的物种有所关心——它们都还真正地活着。 这里我指的是那些长期与人共处， 并适应了人类生态系统的动物。 这样的动物包括老鼠、蟑螂、乌鸦。 而假如你仔细观察的话，你会发现所有的这类动物都已经对人类社会产生了高度的适应性，。 并且随着继续与人生活在一起，它们的适应性还加变得更强。
38 1153-1156 EN: But part of the reason that I found this interesting is that I started noticing that we are very aware of all the species that are going extinct on the planet as a result of human habitation expansion, and no one seems to be paying attention to all the species that are actually living -- that are surviving. And I'm talking specifically about synanthropic species, which are species that have adapted specifically for human ecologies, species like rats and cockroaches and crows. And as I started looking at them, I was finding that they had hyper-adapted. They'd become extremely adept at living with us.
39 1157-1161 ZH: 但反观人类呢，我们只是一直在不断屠杀它们而已。 为了做到这点，人类用喂养的方式来让它们寄生于我们。 我们给了动物们适应新环境的各种理由。 比如：老鼠的生育能力变得超强。 而蟑螂，逮过蟑螂的人都知道， 它们已经不在乎我们的“诱饵”了。
39 1157-1161 EN: And in return, we just tried to kill them all the time. And in doing so, we were breeding them for parasitism. We were giving them all sorts of reasons to adapt new ways. So, for example, rats are incredibly responsive breeders. And cockroaches, as anyone who's tried to get rid of them knows, have become really immune to the poisons that we're using.
40 1167-1174 ZH: 你在地球上任何一处角落——除了两极和南美至南端—— 都可以见得到乌鸦。 通常它们的栖息地离人类居所 不出5公里。 虽然你也许不会想到这一点， 可是它们确确实实一直都这么活在我们身边。 这也不奇怪，我们的地球上人口暴涨， 其中有半数以上居住在城市。 除此之外，90%的人口增长 就都发生在城市里——。 乌鸦这个种群也在经历同样的发展。 所以鸟类的数量在我们看来 将会有一个爆炸型的增长，。 这并没有什么奇怪的。
40 1167-1174 EN: They're found everywhere on the planet except for the Arctic and the southern tip of South America. And in all that area, they're only rarely found breeding more than five kilometers away from human beings. So we may not think about them, but they're always around. And not surprisingly, given the human population growth, more than half of the human population is living in cities now. And out of those, nine-tenths of the human growth population is occurring in cities. We're seeing a population boom with crows. So bird counts are indicating that we might be seeing up to exponential growth in their numbers. So that's no great surprise.
41 1194-1197 ZH: 大家也可能听过各种各样的关于乌鸦的趣闻吧。 比如，在瑞典， 那里的乌鸦会趁渔人往冰隙里放钓钩的时候守在一边，。 当渔人走了， 它们就飞过去拉起钓钩，吃掉钩上的鱼或钓饵。 这可是搞得那里的渔人很烦恼。
41 1194-1197 EN: There are all kinds of anecdotes for different kinds of intelligence they have. For example, in Sweden, crows will wait for fishermen to drop lines through holes in the ice. And when the fishermen move off, the crows fly down, reel up the lines, and eat the fish or the bait. It's pretty annoying for the fishermen.
42 1198-1204 ZH: 而在华盛顿大学， 那里的研究员几年前 做了一个截然不同的实验。 他们在校园里捉来一些乌鸦， 在实验室里加以标记、称量， 然后把它们放走。 而随后的那个星期， 他们惊喜地发现，那些被放走的乌鸦 在校园里一见到那些捉过它们的学生， 就会冲着他们鸣叫， 并在他们周围飞来飞去，给他们的生活增添一些小烦恼。 但之后几个星期还是如此，他们就不再那么惊喜了。 甚至到了下个月，到了夏季学期结束，。 到了他们毕业离校了—— 我相信他们是很高兴地离去的—— 可当他们偶尔回校来看看时，那些乌鸦还是记得他们。 所以——大家看到了吧，千万别惹乌鸦。
42 1198-1204 EN: On an entirely different tack, at University of Washington, they, a few years ago, were doing an experiment where they captured some crows on campus. Some students went out and netted some crows, brought them in, and were -- weighed them, and measured them and whatnot, and then let them back out again. And were entertained to discover that for the rest of the week, these crows, whenever these particular students walked around campus, these crows would caw at them, and run around and make their life kind of miserable. They were significantly less entertained when this went on for the next week. And the next month. And after summer break. Until they finally graduated and left campus, and -- glad to get away, I'm sure -- came back sometime later, and found the crows still remembered them. So -- the moral being, don't piss off crows.
43 1208-1212 ZH: 视频：在新的城市环境中， 乌鸦们的谋生技能正在变得越来越娴熟。 这是一座日本城市， 这里的乌鸦发明了一种吃果仁的办法—— 把坚果丢到车道上。 然后飞走， 等待汽车开过。 之后它们在马路边等待绿灯，。 然后飞到马路中央安全地衔走那颗果仁。
43 1208-1212 EN: Video: Crows have become highly skilled at making a living in these new urban environments. In this Japanese city, they have devised a way of eating a food that normally they can't manage: drop it among the traffic. The problem now is collecting the bits, without getting run over. Wait for the light to stop the traffic. Then, collect your cracked nut in safety.
44 1262-1268 ZH: 我们的眼光可以放远一点：。 我觉得我们可以训练乌鸦来做其他事。 比如，为何不可以通过训练，让乌鸦给体育馆捡垃圾？ 或者让它们帮助我们从大堆的废弃电子元件里头挑出有用的部件？ 又或者让它们参与搜救工作？ 我这个演讲的主要的一个观点是 我们可以寻找到一种与此类动物共存的途径，。 我们能找到与其他族群共处的方式 而不仅仅是灭绝它们， 我们可以和它们实现共赢。
44 1262-1268 EN: Instead, I think we should look a little bit larger. I think that crows can be trained to do other things. For example, why not train them to pick up garbage after stadium events? Or find expensive components from discarded electronics? Or maybe do search and rescue? The main thing, the main point of all this for me is that we can find mutually beneficial systems for these species. We can find ways to interact with these other species that doesn't involve exterminating them, but involves finding an equilibrium with them that's a useful balance.
45 1325-1329 ZH: 当时CNN的人找到我，对我说：赛利格曼教授， 您能不能跟我们谈谈心理学发展的现状？ 我们想采访你在这方面的看法。我便说：好啊。 她说：可是这是CNN，所以你只能很精练地讲一小段话。 我便说：那么我究竟能讲几个字？ 她说：一个字。
45 1325-1329 EN: So they came to me -- CNN -- and they said, "Professor Seligman, would you tell us about the state of psychology today? We'd like to interview you about that." And I said, "Great." And she said, "But this is CNN, so you only get a sound bite." So I said, "Well, how many words do I get?" And she said, "Well, one."
46 1344-1350 ZH: 那么，为什么说心理学的现状好呢？ 因为在过去60多年里，心理学建立起了一个疾病模型。 10年前，坐飞机的时候 我向邻座自我介绍，告诉他们我的职业 他们会挪得离我远一点。 因为他们认为，也有理由认为 心理学的目标就是找出你哪里有问题，找出谁是疯子。 而现在如果我告诉人们我的职业，他们会想凑近我。 心理学好在哪里 美国国家精神卫生研究所投资300亿美元的效果在哪里 建立疾病模型的效果在哪里 心理学自身的意义好在哪里 就在于60年前所有失调都没办法治疗 人们毫无办法。 而现在其中有14种都可以治疗 其中2种还可以治愈。
46 1344-1350 EN: So, why was psychology good? Well, for more than 60 years, psychology worked within the disease model. Ten years ago, when I was on an airplane and I introduced myself to my seatmate, and told them what I did, they'd move away from me. And because, quite rightly, they were saying psychology is about finding what's wrong with you. Spot the loony. And now, when I tell people what I do, they move toward me. And what was good about psychology, about the 30 billion dollar investment NIMH made, about working in the disease model, about what you mean by psychology, is that, 60 years ago, none of the disorders were treatable -- it was entirely smoke and mirrors. And now, 14 of the disorders are treatable, two of them actually curable.
47 1351-1358 ZH: 另一点是一门科学发展起来了 一门研究精神疾病的科学。 我们发现我们可以对抑郁、酗酒这些模糊的概念 进行精确的测量。 我们可以对精神疾病进行分类。 我们可以了解精神疾病的前因后果。 我们可以在很长的时间跨度里观察一些人 比如在基因上对精神分裂症易感的人群 我们想知道后天照顾和先天基因在这其中扮演的角色 我们可以通过对这个精神疾病的实验 分离出导致精神疾病的变量。 最棒的一点是，在过去50年里 我们发明了药物疗法和心理疗法。 并且我们可以通过安慰剂对照组实验 对这些疗法进行精确的测试 把没用的去掉，留下有用的。 结论是：在过去的60年里，心理学和精神病学研究 真的可以为痛苦的人减少痛苦。
47 1351-1358 EN: And the other thing that happened is that a science developed, a science of mental illness. That we found out that we could take fuzzy concepts -- like depression, alcoholism -- and measure them with rigor. That we could create a classification of the mental illnesses. That we could understand the causality of the mental illnesses. We could look across time at the same people -- people, for example, who were genetically vulnerable to schizophrenia -- and ask what the contribution of mothering, of genetics are, and we could isolate third variables by doing experiments on the mental illnesses. And best of all, we were able, in the last 50 years, to invent drug treatments and psychological treatments. And then we were able to test them rigorously, in random assignment, placebo controlled designs, throw out the things that didn't work, keep the things that actively did. And the conclusion of that is that psychology and psychiatry, over the last 60 years, can actually claim that we can make miserable people less miserable.
48 1360-1369 ZH: 但这也带来不好的东西，例如以下三个后果。 第一个是道德上的 心理学家和精神病学家把人当作受害者研究、把人病态化 我们一度认为人在疾病面前无能为力。 我们忘了人们是会做选择、做决定的。 我们忘记了人是可以承担责任的，这是第一个代价。 第二根损失是我们忘记了你们这些人。 我们忘记了要去提高正常人的生活。 我们忘了使正常人更快乐、更充实、更有成就 天才、高智商变成了贬义词。 没有人去研究天才了。 疾病模型的第三个问题 是我们急于帮助得病的人 我们匆忙地去修补损伤 我们从没想过要发展干预措施、积极的干预措施 让人们更加快乐。 这是不好的。
48 1360-1369 EN: But what was not good, the consequences of that were three things. The first was moral, that psychologists and psychiatrists became victimologists, pathologizers, that our view of human nature was that if you were in trouble, bricks fell on you. And we forgot that people made choices and decisions. We forgot responsibility. That was the first cost. The second cost was that we forgot about you people. We forgot about improving normal lives. We forgot about a mission to make relatively untroubled people happier, more fulfilled, more productive. And "genius," "high-talent," became a dirty word. No one works on that. And the third problem about the disease model is, in our rush to do something about people in trouble, in our rush to do something about repairing damage, it never occurred to us to develop interventions to make people happier, positive interventions. So that was not good.
49 1371-1376 ZH: 第一是心理学不仅要关注人的弱点 还要关注人的优势。 不仅要致力于修复损伤，还要致力于给人力量。 应该对生活中最好的东西感兴趣。 应该在关注病人的同时 努力让正常人以及“天才”们的生活更加美好。 我们希望积极心理学在未来能像过去10年这样 作为一门科学逐渐发展起来 这门科学研究什么让生活变得值得一过。 研究发现我们可以测量不同形式的幸福。
49 1371-1376 EN: The first is that psychology should be just as concerned with human strength as it is with weakness. It should be just as concerned with building strength as with repairing damage. It should be interested in the best things in life. And it should be just as concerned with making the lives of normal people fulfilling, and with genius, with nurturing high talent. So in the last 10 years and the hope for the future, we've seen the beginnings of a science of positive psychology, a science of what makes life worth living. It turns out that we can measure different forms of happiness.
50 1382-1386 ZH: 大约六年前，我们转而问。 特别幸福的人和其他人有什么区别？ 结果是只有一个区别。 他们不比别人更笃信宗教，身材不比别人好 他们不比别人富裕，也不比别人好看 他们的生活中并不是成功比挫折多。 他们唯一的区别是非常善于和人相处。
50 1382-1386 EN: And starting about six years ago, we asked about extremely happy people. And how do they differ from the rest of us? And it turns out there's one way. They're not more religious, they're not in better shape, they don't have more money, they're not better looking, they don't have more good events and fewer bad events. The one way in which they differ: they're extremely social.
51 1392-1395 ZH: 从佛祖到托尼•罗宾斯（美国潜能激励大师） 人们在过去一个世纪里。 从各个角度已经提出过大约120种 据说能让人更加幸福的干预措施。 我们已经可以操作其中的许多种 我们可以进行随机指派 研究这些干预措施的有效性。 也就是说，究竟哪些措施真的可以让人们持久提升幸福感？
51 1392-1395 EN: We found we could begin to look at interventions over the centuries, from the Buddha to Tony Robbins. About 120 interventions have been proposed that allegedly make people happy. And we find that we've been able to manualize many of them, and we actually carry out random assignment efficacy and effectiveness studies. That is, which ones actually make people lastingly happier?
52 1399-1404 ZH: 我认为有三种不同的幸福人生 之所以说它们不同 是因为他们来自于不同的干预措施 人们可以拥有其中一种而不拥有另一种。 第一种幸福生活是快乐的人生。 在这样的生活里你的积极情感多得不能再多了 你增强这些感情的技能也多的不能再多了。 第二种是参与的人生 你努力地工作、带孩子、恋爱、休闲，时间为你停止。 亚里士多德谈过的就是这种人生。 第三种是有意义的人生。
52 1399-1404 EN: And I believe there are three different -- and I call them different because different interventions build them, it's possible to have one rather than the other -- three different happy lives. The first happy life is the pleasant life. This is a life in which you have as much positive emotion as you possibly can, and the skills to amplify it. The second is a life of engagement -- a life in your work, your parenting, your love, your leisure, time stops for you. That's what Aristotle was talking about. And third, the meaningful life.
53 1406-1412 ZH: 第一种人生是愉快的人生 你所拥有的快乐多得不能再多了 你的积极情绪多得不能再多了 你学习快乐的技巧 在时间和空间里放大快乐。 但是快乐的人生有三个缺点 这也就是积极心理学区别于“快乐心理学”的地方。 第一个缺点是 你所体会到的积极情绪有50%是遗传的 这种情绪不容易更改。 所以马修和我还有其他人 所使用的让人们有更多积极情绪的方法 有15%到20%都是在遗传范围内让人们发掘潜质的小把戏。 第二个缺点是人们很快就能适应积极情绪。 就像法式香草冰淇凌，第一口是100%的美味 但到了第六口，就没有味道了。 第三点，正如我说过的，积极情绪很难改变。
53 1406-1412 EN: The first life is the pleasant life and it's simply, as best we can find it, it's having as many of the pleasures as you can, as much positive emotion as you can, and learning the skills -- savoring, mindfulness -- that amplify them, that stretch them over time and space. But the pleasant life has three drawbacks, and it's why positive psychology is not happy-ology and why it doesn't end here. The first drawback is that it turns out the pleasant life, your experience of positive emotion, is heritable, about 50 percent heritable, and, in fact, not very modifiable. So the different tricks that Matthieu [Ricard] and I and others know about increasing the amount of positive emotion in your life are 15 to 20 percent tricks, getting more of it. Second is that positive emotion habituates. It habituates rapidly, indeed. It's all like French vanilla ice cream, the first taste is a 100 percent; by the time you're down to the sixth taste, it's gone. And, as I said, it's not particularly malleable.
54 1414-1420 ZH: 我得跟你们说说我的朋友兰 让你们知道积极心理学不仅是关于积极情绪 不仅是要创造快乐。 还没到30岁，兰就在生活三个方面中的两个取得了巨大成功 第一个是工作方面。 不到20岁他就是个期权交易家。 不到25岁他就成了百万富翁 同时是一家期权交易公司的经理。 第二个是休闲方面：他是全国桥牌比赛冠军。 但是在第三个方面，爱情，兰却彻底失败。 原因就在于他对人非常冷淡（像一条冷冰冰的鱼）。
54 1414-1420 EN: And I have to tell you about my friend, Len, to talk about why positive psychology is more than positive emotion, more than building pleasure. In two of the three great arenas of life, by the time Len was 30, Len was enormously successful. The first arena was work. By the time he was 20, he was an options trader. By the time he was 25, he was a multimillionaire and the head of an options trading company. Second, in play -- he's a national champion bridge player. But in the third great arena of life, love, Len is an abysmal failure. And the reason he was, was that Len is a cold fish.
55 1441-1449 ZH: 举一个例子：我曾经研究过一个在商店里工作的装袋工。 她很不喜欢这份工作。 她同时在读大学。 她最大的优势是善于交际 所以她很努力地 让每个客人见到她就一整天心情好。 很显然她失败了。 但是她随后用在工作上尽量多地 重新利用她最大的优势。 你从中得到的并不是微笑。 你看起来不像黛比·雷诺斯。 你不经常咯咯地笑，你得到的是更加投入的精神。
55 1441-1449 EN: Just one example. One person I worked with was a bagger at Genuardi's. Hated the job. She's working her way through college. Her highest strength was social intelligence, so she re-crafted bagging to make the encounter with her the social highlight of every customer's day. Now obviously she failed. But what she did was to take her highest strengths, and re-craft work to use them as much as possible. What you get out of that is not smiley-ness. You don't look like Debbie Reynolds. You don't giggle a lot. What you get is more absorption.
56 1457-1462 ZH: 我们做很严密的测试。 就像我们测验哪些药物有效一样。 我们随机分配，有些人分在服用安慰剂的控制组 我们用各种干预措施做长期研究。 想找到有效果的干预措施 我们向被测试者介绍什么是快乐的生活 如何在生活中找到更多快乐 你的任务之一是利用你的细心和风趣 来设计美好的一天。 把下个星期六空出来，给自己设计美好的一天 用风趣和细心增强这些快乐。 我们可以证明，如此快乐感真的提升了。
56 1457-1462 EN: It's being done in a rigorous manner. It's being done in the same way that we test drugs to see what really works. So we do random assignment, placebo controlled, long-term studies of different interventions. And just to sample the kind of interventions that we find have an effect, when we teach people about the pleasant life, how to have more pleasure in your life, one of your assignments is to take the mindfulness skills, the savoring skills, and you're assigned to design a beautiful day. Next Saturday, set a day aside, design yourself a beautiful day, and use savoring and mindfulness to enhance those pleasures. And we can show in that way that the pleasant life is enhanced.
57 1463-1470 ZH: 另一项干预措施是感恩访问，现在如果你愿意，请跟着我做。 闭上眼睛。 我要你记起一个曾经做过很重要的事情 一个往好的方向改变了你一生 而你从来没有正式感谢过的人。 必须是个还健在的人。 现在，好的，睁开眼睛。 我希望你们每个人都找到了这么一个人。 你在完成感恩访问这个任务的时候 得给那个人写一封300字的感谢信 给他们打电话 跟他们说你要拜访他们，不要说为什么，登门就行了 然后你读感谢信给他们听——每个人在这种情况下都会掉眼泪。 一个星期之后，一个月之后，三个月之后 我们再进行测试，发现这些人变得更开心、不那么抑郁了。
57 1463-1470 EN: Gratitude visit. I want you all to do this with me now, if you would. Close your eyes. I'd like you to remember someone who did something enormously important that changed your life in a good direction, and who you never properly thanked. The person has to be alive. OK. Now, OK, you can open your eyes. I hope all of you have such a person. Your assignment, when you're learning the gratitude visit, is to write a 300-word testimonial to that person, call them on the phone in Phoenix, ask if you can visit, don't tell them why, show up at their door, you read the testimonial -- everyone weeps when this happens. And what happens is when we test people one week later, a month later, three months later, they're both happier and less depressed.
58 1471-1477 ZH: 另一个例子是优势约会 我们找来一对对伴侣，让他们在优势测试中明确自己最大的优势 然后我们为他们设计一个双方都能利用自己优势的夜晚 我们发现这样可以增进他们的关系。 “趣味对慈善”也是一种方法。 这种方法对在座各位不大适用 因为你们中的很多人已经投身慈善了。 不过，我教的本科生和我的测试对象还不了解这其中的奥妙 于是我让他们做些帮助他人的事 再做些有趣的事，进行比较。 你会发现，当你做有趣的事的时候 快乐很快消退。 当你慈善地帮助别人的时候，快乐的感觉长久不退。 这些就是积极干预的例子。
58 1471-1477 EN: Another example is a strength date, in which we get couples to identify their highest strengths on the strengths test, and then to design an evening in which they both use their strengths, and we find this is a strengthener of relationships. And fun versus philanthropy. But it's so heartening to be in a group like this, in which so many of you have turned your lives to philanthropy. Well, my undergraduates and the people I work with haven't discovered this, so we actually have people do something altruistic and do something fun, and to contrast it. And what you find is when you do something fun, it has a square wave walk set. When you do something philanthropic to help another person, it lasts and it lasts. So those are examples of positive interventions.
59 1481-1488 ZH: 我们在15个副本里研究了几千个人 我们想知道，对快乐的追求 对积极情绪、快乐生活的追求 对参与的追求、对忘记时间的状态的追求 对人生意义的追求，在何种程度上影响我们对人生的满意度？ 结果出人意料。 研究显示，对快乐的追求基本上不影响我们对人生的满意度。 对意义的追求影响最大。 对参与的追求影响也很大。 如果你已经到达了参与和有意义的状态 那么快乐就可以给你的人生锦上添花。 也就是说如果三者都有，完整的人生超过各个部分的总和。 相反地，如果这三者你都没有 生活就比各个部分的总和还要空虚。
59 1481-1488 EN: So we ask -- and we've done this in 15 replications involving thousands of people -- to what extent does the pursuit of pleasure, the pursuit of positive emotion, the pleasant life, the pursuit of engagement, time stopping for you, and the pursuit of meaning contribute to life satisfaction? And our results surprised us, but they were backward of what we thought. It turns out the pursuit of pleasure has almost no contribution to life satisfaction. The pursuit of meaning is the strongest. The pursuit of engagement is also very strong. Where pleasure matters is if you have both engagement and you have meaning, then pleasure's the whipped cream and the cherry. Which is to say, the full life -- the sum is greater than the parts, if you've got all three. Conversely, if you have none of the three, the empty life, the sum is less than the parts.
60 1489-1492 ZH: 我们现在要问的是 身体健康、患病率 寿命、生产力等，是否也存在同样的现象？ 比如在一家公司里 生产力是积极情绪、奋斗和意义的共同作用吗？ 健康是积极情绪、快乐 和意义的共同作用吗？ 我们有理由相信两者的答案可能都是肯定的。
60 1489-1492 EN: And what we're asking now is does the very same relationship, physical health, morbidity, how long you live and productivity, follow the same relationship? That is, in a corporation, is productivity a function of positive emotion, engagement and meaning? Is health a function of positive engagement, of pleasure, and of meaning in life? And there is reason to think the answer to both of those may well be yes.
61 1499-1506 ZH: 30年前我刚开始从医的时候 我想如果我有能力给人减少抑郁 减少焦虑，减少愤怒，那我就让他们快乐了。 事实并非如此，最佳疗效只能是让病人归零。 但他们内心空虚。 其实快乐的技能、快乐生活的技能 参与的技能、找到意义的技能 和减少痛苦的技能是不一样的。 我相信，同样的情况 也存在于科技、娱乐和设计上。 也就是说，这三种动力都能用来增加 人们的幸福感和积极情绪 人们也确实在这样使用它们。 但是如果你像我一样分解快乐 你会发现快乐不只是积极情绪——那是不够的—— 快乐还包括生活的心流以及人生的意义。 正如劳拉莉告诉我们的 设计、娱乐和科技 也可以用来增强人生的意义和参与。
61 1499-1506 EN: I thought, when I first became a therapist 30 years ago, that if I was good enough to make someone not depressed, not anxious, not angry, that I'd make them happy. And I never found that. I found the best you could ever do was to get to zero. But they were empty. And it turns out the skills of happiness, the skills of the pleasant life, the skills of engagement, the skills of meaning, are different from the skills of relieving misery. And so, the parallel thing holds with technology, entertainment and design, I believe. That is, it is possible for these three drivers of our world to increase happiness, to increase positive emotion, and that's typically how they've been used. But once you fractionate happiness the way I do -- not just positive emotion, that's not nearly enough -- there's flow in life, and there's meaning in life. As Laura Lee told us, design, and, I believe, entertainment and technology, can be used to increase meaning engagement in life as well.
62 1518-1522 ZH: 事实是：城市能带给人更多的自由 在文艺复兴时期德国人的看法 现在人们涌向上海那样的城市，但大多数搬到城市的人都是住进了贫民区。 他们不是被贫困所迫而住到那样的地方。 他们正在以最快的速度摆脱贫困呢。 他们是城市的主要建筑者，甚至可以说是城市的主要设计师。 他们所使用的基础设施都是自己搞起来的，过的也是非常丰富的都市生活。
62 1518-1522 EN: And here's the unromantic truth -- and the city air makes you free, they said in Renaissance Germany. So some people go to places like Shanghai but most go to the squatter cities where aesthetics rule. And these are not really a people oppressed by poverty. They're people getting out of poverty as fast as they can. They're the dominant builders and to a large extent, the dominant designers. They have home-brewed infrastructure and vibrant urban life.
63 1547-1556 ZH: 书籍的起源固然很重要。 让我们看看谷登堡版圣经吧 这会使得谈论书籍起源更有趣些。 大家看，一本1455年的谷登堡版圣经 多么轻便。 而谷登堡版圣经和它的印刷技术之所以有趣却 不在于这本书。 想想看，这本书的产生不是由于阅读的需要。 在1455年，还没人识字呢。 那么印刷术是怎么成功的？ 这是最初的谷登堡版圣经的一页。 所以你现在看见的正是 历史上最初应用活字凸版应刷的书籍之一 那是550年前的事了。 我们正活在书的最末一页 电子印刷术将会毫无疑问地取代活字凸版的年代。
63 1547-1556 EN: The dawn of books is, of course, important. And it wouldn’t be interesting to talk about the dawn of books without having a copy of a Guttenberg Bible. You can see how portable and handy it was to have your own Guttenberg in 1455. But what’s interesting about the Guttenberg Bible, and the dawn of this technology, is not the book. You see, the book was not driven by reading. In 1455, nobody could read. So why did the printing press succeed? This is an original page of a Guttenberg Bible. So you’re looking here at one of the first printed books using movable type in the history of man, 550 years ago. We are living at the age here at the end of the book, where electronic paper will undoubtedly replace it.
64 1558-1564 ZH: 在15世纪50年代 天主教会需要用钱 因此他们印刷赎罪券 赎罪券事实上是手写在纸上的 豁免权。 它们在欧洲大陆上漫天飞舞 被成百上千地出售。 它们可以帮助你早日涤罪。 在印刷机被发明之后 教会发现他们可以印刷赎罪券 也就相当于印刷纸币。 于是在1455年整个欧洲西部开始购买印刷机 来印刷成百上千 而后成千上万 而后数不胜数的 单页的小纸片 声称能将你从地狱中引领入天堂。 这就是印刷机成功的原因 也是马丁路德 在教堂张贴他的90条论纲的起因 他抱怨天主教会通过 印刷赎罪券并大肆在 欧洲西部的每个市镇乡村疯狂售卖。 因此，女士们先生们，印刷机 是被复印赎罪券的需求推动的 完全与阅读无关。
64 1558-1564 EN: It turns out that in the 1450s, the Catholic Church needed money, and so they actually hand-wrote these things called indulgences, which were forgiveness’s on pieces of paper. They traveled all around Europe and sold by the hundreds or by the thousands. They got you out of purgatory faster. And when the printing press was invented what they found was they could print indulgences, which was the equivalent of printing money. And so all of Western Europe started buying printing presses in 1455 -- to print out thousands, and then hundreds of thousands, and then ultimately millions of single, small pieces of paper that got you out of middle hell and into heaven. That is why the printing press succeeded, and that is why Martin Luther nailed his 90 theses to the door: because he was complaining that the Catholic Church had gone amok in printing out indulgences and selling them in every town and village and city in all of Western Europe. So the printing press, ladies and gentlemen, was driven entirely by the printing of forgivenesses and had nothing to do with reading.
65 1593-1600 ZH: 例如，我们看一下 这个DNA分子模型。 我们都从没见过 但我们学过，所以知道它的存在 和组成。 让我们也来看看二战时期纳粹党的 恩尼格玛密电码机 这是一个编码和解码的机器。 现在你可能要问，这二者有什么关系呢？ 嗯，这个是生命的密码 这个是死亡的密码。 这两个分子 编码和解码。 而看看他们，你将会看见一台机器和一个分子。 但如果你以新的方式去看待他们 你将会发现事实上他们是有联系的。
65 1593-1600 EN: For example, we can look at a DNA molecule model here. None of us really have ever seen one, but we know it exists because we’ve been taught to understand this molecule. But we can also look at an Enigma machine from the Nazis in World War II that was a coding and decoding machine. Now, you might say, what does this have to do with this? Well, this is the code for life, and this is a code for death. These two molecules code and decode. And yet, looking at them, you would see a machine and a molecule. But once you’ve seen them in a new way, you realize that both of these things really are connected.
66 1602-1606 ZH: 这是一个人脑模型，是吧？ 这很稀有，因为我们不总能看见人脑。 我们通常看到头骨。但它就在这儿了。 都是由于想象，一切我们所想 所感，都来自于人脑。 而一旦我们在头脑中创造了新的想法 以新的方式塑造我们的头脑 它绝不会回到原来的样子的。
66 1602-1606 EN: You see, this is a human brain model, OK? And it’s rare, because we never really get to see a brain. We get to see a skull. But there it is. All of imagination -- everything that we think, we feel, we sense -- comes through the human brain. And once we create new patterns in this brain, once we shape the brain in a new way, it never returns to its original shape.
67 1607-1613 ZH: 我举一个简单的例子。 我们想到网络的时候 我们想到的是网络上传播的信息。 我们从不会想到那些潜在的联系。 我带来了一块煤 在这，一块煤。 那么一块煤与网络有什么联系呢?。 你看，网络需要煤产生的能量 来使每兆字节的信息在网络上传播。 所以每当你下载了一个文件 每兆字节都是一块煤。
67 1607-1613 EN: And I’ll give you a quick example. We think about the Internet; we think about information that goes across the Internet. And we never think about the hidden connection. But I brought along here a lump of coal -- right here, one lump of coal. And what does a lump of coal have to do with the Internet? You see, it takes the energy in one lump of coal to move one megabyte of information across the net. So every time you download a file, each megabyte is a lump of coal.
68 1621-1626 ZH: 我想起了卡伦•阿姆斯特朗的精彩演讲， 他提到真正被理解的宗教， 并非关于教义，而是关系行为。 对于乐观主义，也许我们应有同样的说法。 我们怎敢乐观？ 乐观主义有时被描绘为一种信念，一种智识上的心境。 但是像圣雄甘地的名言所说的， “你必须成为你愿意看到的变化。”。 所以，我们试图以乐观心境期待的结果 并非由信念本身就能创造出来， 除非这种信念， 能带来新的行为模式。但是“行为”这个词， 我想，在这个语境下也经常被误解。
68 1621-1626 EN: And I was reminded by Karen Armstrong's fantastic presentation that religion really properly understood is not about belief, but about behavior. Perhaps we should say the same thing about optimism. How dare we be optimistic? Optimism is sometimes characterized as a belief, an intellectual posture. As Mahatma Gandhi famously said, "You must become the change you wish to see in the world." And the outcome about which we wish to be optimistic is not going to be created by the belief alone, except to the extent that the belief brings about new behavior. But the word "behavior" is also, I think, sometimes misunderstood in this context.
69 1647-1650 ZH: 这是上个秋季发生的变化， 这些变化真的让研究人员们感到焦虑。 北极冰盖的地理面积 虽然看起来不太吻合， 但实际上正好等于美国本土的面积 减去亚利桑那州的大小。 在2005年冰盖消失的面积， 和密西西比以东的所有州面积总和一样大。 去年秋季冰盖消失的面积 大约和这个同量。冰盖在冬季恢复了一些， 但此时形成的不是永久型冰盖，而是薄的冰层， 非常脆弱。剩下的冰盖可能在至少五年内 的夏季全部消失。
69 1647-1650 EN: Here's what happened last fall that has really unnerved the researchers. The North Polar ice cap is the same size geographically -- doesn't look quite the same size -- but it is exactly the same size as the United States, minus an area roughly equal to the state of Arizona. The amount that disappeared in 2005 was equivalent to everything east of the Mississippi. The extra amount that disappeared last fall was equivalent to this much. It comes back in the winter, but not as permanent ice, as thin ice -- vulnerable. The amount remaining could be completely gone in summer in as little as five years.
70 1666-1669 ZH: 现在，好消息是，百分之六十八的美国人相信 人类活动应该为全球变暖负责。 百分之六十九的人相信，地球正在显著地 变暖。进步已经在发生了， 但要点是，当做一个清单来列举 要面临的挑战时，全球变暖仍然是在接近清单的最低端。 缺少的是——紧迫感。 如果你认同事实方面的分析， 却没有感觉到紧迫感， 那你在想什么呢？ 我领导的“气候保护联盟” 与CurrentTV合作做了一个公益活动， 我们主办了世界性的广告大赛，主题是如何宣传紧迫感。
70 1666-1669 EN: Now, here's the good news. Sixty-eight percent of Americans now believe that human activity is responsible for global warming. Sixty-nine percent believe that the Earth is heating up in a significant way. There has been progress, but here is the key: when given a list of challenges to confront, global warming is still listed at near the bottom. What is missing is a sense of urgency. If you agree with the factual analysis, but you don't feel the sense of urgency, where does that leave you? Well, the Alliance for Climate Protection, which I head in conjunction with Current TV -- who did this pro bono -- did a worldwide contest to do commercials on how to communicate this.
71 1698-1701 ZH: 仅有的两个没有批准京都议定书的国家 ——现在只有一个。不久前澳大利亚举行了选举，。 也有了一场运动， 电视、互联网和广播广告都参与进来 来提高澳洲民众对气候变化的紧迫感的认识。 我们培训了250人来做这个幻灯片演讲， 传播到了澳大利亚的每一个小镇、村庄和城市。 很多其它的因素也有贡献， 新首相宣布 他的首要措施是改变澳大利亚对京都议定书的 立场，他的确做到了。澳洲清醒了， 部分是因为他们经历的恐怖的干旱。
71 1698-1701 EN: The only two countries that didn't ratify -- and now there's only one. Australia had an election. And there was a campaign in Australia that involved television and Internet and radio commercials to lift the sense of urgency for the people there. And we trained 250 people to give the slide show in every town and village and city in Australia. Lot of other things contributed to it, but the new Prime Minister announced that his very first priority would be to change Australia's position on Kyoto, and he has. Now, they came to an awareness partly because of the horrible drought that they have had.
72 1712-1716 ZH: 过去曾有英雄一代， 他们给地球带来了民主。 另外一代结束了奴隶制；还有一代给予了妇女投票权。 我们能做到这些。不要告诉我我们没有能力去做。 如果我们有我们在伊拉克战争中一周消耗的金钱， 我们就足以着手解决气候危机了。 我们有能力去做！
72 1712-1716 EN: This was another hero generation that brought democracy to the planet. Another that ended slavery. And that gave women the right to vote. We can do this. Don't tell me that we don't have the capacity to do it. If we had just one week's worth of what we spend on the Iraq War, we could be well on the way to solving this challenge. We have the capacity to do it.
73 1751-1754 ZH: 大家有些人可能知道一句古老的非洲谚语， 谚语说，“如果你想走得快，要独行； 如果你想走得远，结伙而行。”我们必须走得快而远，。 所以我们必须改变我们的意识，。 改变我们的信奉。一种新的危机感，。 和新认识——我们具有殊荣 来应对这个挑战！
73 1751-1754 EN: There's an old African proverb that some of you know that says, "If you want to go quickly, go alone; if you want to go far, go together." We have to go far, quickly. So we have to have a change in consciousness. A change in commitment. A new sense of urgency. A new appreciation for the privilege that we have of undertaking this challenge.
74 1774-1780 ZH: 举个例子，这是Herbert和他的祖母。 当我第一次看到他时，他坐在他祖母的大腿上。 他因父母双双死于艾滋而成为孤儿 他的祖母照顾他直到他也同样死于艾滋。 他喜欢坐在她的大腿上 因为他说躺在床上会觉得很痛。 当祖母起身去泡茶时，他把Herbert放在我的大腿上 我从来没有抱过这么瘦弱的孩子。 在我走之前， 我问他是否需要些什么。 我以为他会想要玩具、糖果什么的 但他想要的是拖鞋 因为他说他的脚会冷。
74 1774-1780 EN: For instance, this is Herbert with his grandmother. When I first met him, he was sitting on his grandmother's lap. He has been orphaned, as both of his parents died of AIDS, and his grandmother took care of him until he too died of AIDS. He liked to sit on her lap because he said that it was painful for him to lie in his own bed. When she got up to make tea, she placed him in my own lap and I had never felt a child that was that emaciated. Before I left, I actually asked him if I could get him something. I thought he would ask for a toy, or candy, and he asked me for slippers, because he said that his feet were cold.
75 1781-1785 ZH: 这是Joyce 一个21岁女孩的照片。 一个感染了艾滋的单亲妈妈。 我在她生下宝贝女儿Lssa 的前、后为她拍照。 当我上周走在曼哈顿的拉法叶大街时 接到一个我不认识女人的电话 她跟我说年仅23岁的Joyce 去世了。 现在是Joyce的妈妈在照看她的女儿 像很多因传染艾滋病而变成孤儿 的津巴布韦儿童一样。
75 1781-1785 EN: This is Joyce who's -- in this picture -- 21. Single mother, HIV positive. I photographed her before and after the birth of her beautiful baby girl, Issa. And I was last week walking on Lafayette Street in Manhattan and got a call from a woman who I didn't know, but she called to tell me that Joyce had passed away at the age of 23. Joyce's mother is now taking care of her daughter, like so many other Zimbabwean children who've been orphaned by the epidemic.
76 1798-1802 ZH: 改变基因的一个方法是创造出新的基因， 就像克雷格.文特尔的优美结论所展示的那样；。 而还有一个方法则是改进我们的生活习惯。 事实上我们发现，后者所涉及的改动能够较快地带来巨大的成效， 使得我们不用望断秋水般等待这些措施见效。 当你的饮食更加健康，懂得处理与释放压力，坚持锻炼，并且付出爱心的时候， 你的大脑会得到更多的供血与供氧。 不仅如此，你的大脑在体积上也会有所增长。
76 1798-1802 EN: One way to change our genes is to make new ones, as Craig Venter has so elegantly shown. Another is to change our lifestyles. And what we're learning is how powerful and dynamic these changes can be, that you don't have to wait very long to see the benefits. When you eat healthier, manage stress, exercise and love more, your brain actually gets more blood flow and more oxygen. But more than that, your brain gets measurably bigger.
77 1811-1816 ZH: 当你改进你的生活习惯的时候，皮肤的供血会更加充足， 这可以起到延缓衰老的效果，因为皮肤不那么容易起皱纹了。 你的心脏供血量也会增大，。 我们的研究指出，这甚至可以阻止心脏病的发作。 大家可以看到，幻灯片左上角显示的是被阻塞了的动脉， 而经过一年的健康生活以后，动脉的阻塞程度明显降低。 我们再来看左下角这张心脏的断层显像， 蓝色部分表示没有血液流通。 同样也是一年以后，我们看到大块的橙色与白色，它们正表示最大的血流量。
77 1811-1816 EN: Your skin gets more blood flow when you change your lifestyle, so you age less quickly. Your skin doesn't wrinkle as much. Your heart gets more blood flow. We've shown that you can actually reverse heart disease. That these clogged arteries that you see on the upper left, after only a year become measurably less clogged. And the cardiac PET scan shown on the lower left, the blue means no blood flow. A year later -- orange and white is maximum blood flow.
78 1820-1823 ZH: 人们的性器官也会得到更多的血液， 从而提高性能力。 在所有的禁烟广告中，最有效的一个... ...是健康服务部所拍摄的。 这则广告上说，尼古丁不仅会由于紧缩动脉... ...而导致心脏病或中风， 它还会导致性无能。 男性吸烟者中有一半是性无能者，。 事情变得不那么性感了吧？
78 1820-1823 EN: Even your sexual organs get more blood flow, so you increase sexual potency. One of the most effective anti-smoking ads was done by the Department of Health Services, showing that nicotine, which constricts your arteries, can cause a heart attack or a stroke, but it also causes impotence. Half of guys who smoke are impotent. How sexy is that?
79 1856-1859 ZH: 在新加坡的设计曾经讨论过。这是新加坡的一个小景点，我们在那里录制了作品， 要在新加坡的超大屏幕上进行展示。 当然，这个作品是最和我意的， 因为所有的这些观点， 有一些一般，有一些有点儿深奥， 都是来自于我的日记。 我确实经常翻阅日记 并查看一下我是否曾想要改变某些状况。 
79 1856-1859 EN: Singapore was quite in discussion. This is a little spot that we filmed there that's to be displayed on the large JumboTrons in Singapore. And, of course, it's one that's dear to my heart, because all of these sentiments -- some banal, some a bit more profound -- all originally had come out of my diary. And I do go often into the diary and check if I wanted to change something about the situation. 
80 1884-1887 ZH: 苏联人造卫星很快成为冲击美国的三个震惊之一 历史学家称它可与珍珠港或9/11事件相提并论。 它引出了美苏两国导弹力量差距(missile gap)的观点。 并因此引发了两国之间的军备竞赛。 从此太空竞赛拉开帷幕。
80 1884-1887 EN: Sputnik quickly became one of the three great shocks to hit America -- historians say the equal of Pearl Harbor or 9/11. It provoked the missile gap. It exploded an arms race. It began the space race.
81 1892-1895 ZH: 但是人造卫星同样也引起了令人高兴的变化。 例如，在座中也许有人因为人造卫星 而获得奖学金进入大学。 对工程，数学和科学的支持 使教育得到了长足发展。 并且温顿.瑟夫认为人造卫星 直接导致了ARPA(美国国防高级研究计划局)以及互联网 和NASA(美国国家航空航天局)的诞生。
81 1892-1895 EN: But Sputnik provoked wonderful changes as well. For example, some in this room went to school on scholarship because of Sputnik. Support for engineering, math and science -- education in general -- boomed. And Vint Cerf points out that Sputnik led directly to ARPA, and the Internet, and, of course, NASA.
82 1915-1918 ZH: 穆雷盖尔：恩，我猜想现代语言一定很古老。 比洞穴壁画，洞穴雕刻和洞穴雕刻更早， 在西欧洞穴中发现的软泥上的舞步痕迹所处 的3万5千年前奥瑞纳(译者:一种旧石器时代文化)时期以前，或者更早。 我很难相信他们创造了那么多东西却没有拥有现代语言。 所以我猜想真正的语言起源是来自那个时期或者这之前。 但是这也不表明所有的或者大多数 现今得到确认的语言不是源自 一个更年轻的，可能是2万年前的源头， 或者诸如此类的来源。这也就是我们所谓的瓶颈。
82 1915-1918 EN: Murray Gell-Mann: Well, I would guess that modern language must be older than the cave paintings and cave engravings and cave sculptures and dance steps in the soft clay in the caves in Western Europe, in the Aurignacian Period some 35,000 years ago, or earlier. I can't believe they did all those things and didn't also have a modern language. So, I would guess that the actual origin goes back at least that far and maybe further. But that doesn't mean that all, or many, or most of today's attested languages couldn't descend perhaps from one that's much younger than that, like say 20,000 years, or something of that kind. It's what we call a bottleneck.
83 26-30 ZH: 我们生活在一个数码时代 但我们依然是很模式化的生物。 信件仍然很有用。 即使我们总统本人 也会每天阅读十封信 由工作人员帮忙选出来。 我可以告诉大家在我工作过的每一个行政机关 都会告诉你他们收到过的信 和他们的意义。 所以你为什么不写封信呢。
83 26-30 EN: We live in a digital world, but we're fairly analog creatures. Letters actually work. Even the top dog himself takes time every day to read 10 letters that are picked out by staff. I can tell you that every official that I've ever worked with will tell you about the letters they get and what they mean. So, how are you going to write your letter?
84 116-122 ZH: 好，假设你现在站在美国任何一个地方的街道上 一个日本人走过来跟你说， “打扰一下，请问这栋街区叫什么名字？”。 而你说，“不知道。不过，这条是橡树街，那条是榆树街。 这条是26街，那条是27街。”。 他说，“哦，好的。那这栋街区叫什么名字呢？”。 你说，“街区是没有名字的。 街道才有名字；街区只不过是 街道之间的未命名的空间。”。 他带着一点疑惑和失望离开了。
84 116-122 EN: So, imagine you're standing on a street anywhere in America and a Japanese man comes up to you and says, "Excuse me, what is the name of this block?" And you say, "I'm sorry, well, this is Oak Street, that's Elm Street. This is 26th, that's 27th." He says, "OK, but what is the name of that block?" You say, "Well, blocks don't have names. Streets have names; blocks are just the unnamed spaces in between streets." He leaves, a little confused and disappointed.
85 233-237 ZH: 现在让我们看看英国的一些数据。 这是英国政府的数据， 完全独立的网站， 我的钱花到哪里去了，。 这个网站让任何人在网站上利用其数据。 你可以根据特别的消费种类来查找 也可以找出不同的地区的数据来做比较。 英国人正在用英国政府提供的数据资料做这些事情。
85 233-237 EN: Let's look at some data from the U.K. now. This is U.K. government data, a completely independent site, Where Does My Money Go. It allows anybody to go there and burrow down. You can burrow down by a particular type of spending, or you can go through all the different regions and compare them. So, that's happening in the U.K. with U.K. government data.
86 276-283 ZH: 这是一个早产儿。 看起来，他似乎在安睡，但实际上，他正与死神作斗争。 因为他无法调节自己的体温。 这个婴儿实在太小了， 他没有足够的脂肪来维持体温。 很悲哀...每年都有两千万这样的婴儿 诞生在世界上。 其中的四百万无法存活。 但更严重的问题是，如果他们侥幸存活 一些慢性病将伴随他们一生。 因为在婴儿诞生的第一个月 他们唯一要做的就是成长。 如果体温不稳定，器官不能正常发育 随之而来的，就是一连串健康问题 如糖尿病，心脏病， 或弱智。
86 276-283 EN: What you see here is a premature baby. He looks like he's resting peacefully, but in fact he's struggling to stay alive because he can't regulate his own body temperature. This baby is so tiny he doesn't have enough fat on his body to stay warm. Sadly, 20 million babies like this are born every year around the world. Four million of these babies die annually. But the bigger problem is that the ones who do survive grow up with severe, long-term health problems. The reason is because in the first month of a baby's life, its only job is to grow. If it's battling hypothermia, its organs can't develop normally, resulting in a range of health problems from diabetes, to heart disease, to low I.Q.
87 285-292 ZH: 给婴儿保暖是恒温箱的主要功能。 但传统的恒温箱需要电源 且售价高达2万美元。 在发展中国家的偏远地区，恒温箱根本不存在。 因此，父母们只能就地取材， 如在早产儿身体周围绑上热水壶 或如你们所看的这张图，将早产儿放在灯泡下-- 这些方法效果差，且不安全。 我多次亲眼目睹这些惨剧。 头几次去印度时，我遇到了这样一位年轻的女性，Sevitha， 她刚刚诞下了一个瘦小的早产儿，Rani。 她带着孩子去了村子里最近的诊所， 医生建议她带Rani去市区的医院 把Rani放在恒温箱里。 但去医院要花四个多小时。 Sevitha没办法去， 于是，她的宝贝走了。
87 285-292 EN: That is the primary function of an incubator. But traditional incubators require electricity and cost up to 20 thousand dollars. So, you're not going to find them in rural areas of developing countries. As a result, parents resort to local solutions like tying hot water bottles around their babies' bodies, or placing them under light bulbs like the ones you see here -- methods that are both ineffective and unsafe. I've seen this firsthand over and over again. On one of my first trips to India, I met this young woman, Sevitha, who had just given birth to a tiny premature baby, Rani. She took her baby to the nearest village clinic, and the doctor advised her to take Rani to a city hospital so she could be placed in an incubator. But that hospital was over four hours away, and Sevitha didn't have the means to get there, so her baby died.
88 311-316 ZH: 在设计中，我们遵循了一些基本的法则。 我们急用户之所急，想用户之所想， 了解Sevitha他们的需求。 我们努力挖掘问题的根源 不受表面现象的影响。 我们希望寻找最简单的方法 来解决问题。 这样一来，我相信科技必将造福于大众。 通过简单的"温暖的拥抱"，我们可以拯救许多生命。
88 311-316 EN: In designing this we followed a few basic principles. We really tried to understand the end user, in this case, people like Sevitha. We tried to understand the root of the problem rather than being biased by what already exists. And then we thought of the most simple solution we could to address this problem. In doing this, I believe we can truly bring technology to the masses. And we can save millions of lives through the simple warmth of an Embrace.
89 351-357 ZH: 现在有许多讨论 是关于消费金融保护署的， 如何使其工作程序简单化。 我们都看到它的复杂性。 我相信我们 和他们都有义不容辞的责任， 使国家重点项目清晰、透明 和与大众有共鸣感。 我们无法再允许政府 按照他们的表达方式进行表达，。 我们无法再与协议中 带有隐匿、晦涩难懂条款的公司 做生意。 那么，我们如何去改变世界？ 那就是使国家重点项目清晰、透明并且简单化。
89 351-357 EN: There is a lot of discussion now about a consumer financial protection agency, how to mandate simplicity. We see all this complexity. It's incumbent upon us, and this organization, I believe, to make clarity, transparency and empathy a national priority. There is no way that we should allow government to communicate the way they communicate. There is no way we should do business with companies that have agreements with stealth provisions and that are unintelligible. So, how are we going to change the world? Make clarity, transparency and simplicity a national priority.
90 620-624 ZH: 我很喜欢周间素食这个点子。 我的碳足迹小了 我减低了污染 我对动物感觉好些了 甚至还存了一点钱。 最棒的是，我更健康了 我知道我会更长命 甚至还瘦了一些。 于是，请大家今天自问 为了你的健康 你的财富 为了环境和动物 为什么不试试做个周间的素食者呢？ 如果我们所有人都少吃 一半的肉 那就像我们之中有一半人 是素食者一样。
90 620-624 EN: The program has been great, weekday veg. My footprint's smaller, I'm lessening pollution, I feel better about the animals, I'm even saving money. Best of all, I'm healthier, I know that I'm going to live longer, and I've even lost a little weight. So, please ask yourselves, for your health, for your pocketbook, for the environment, for the animals: What's stopping you from giving weekday veg a shot? After all, if all of us ate half as much meat, it would be like half of us were vegetarians.
91 629-635 ZH: 我跟一群朋友在2005年建立了一个网站， 叫做Reddit.com。 这是一个社交型新闻网站。 基本上就是说公共首页 上罗列的是目前网上风头最劲的东西。你找到一些好玩儿的， 比如说TEDTalk, 传到Reddit上，然后你的社区同好们 喜欢就顶，不喜欢就踩。 首页就是这么来的。升升降降，新闻总是在换。 每天大概有50万的点击量。但这不是Reddit本身的魅力。 这其实是大家对发掘网络上新鲜事的热情。 因为最近四年我们见到了各种各样的流行语 和潮流从我们的首页开始发扬光大。
91 629-635 EN: Started a website back in 2005, with a few friends of mine, called Reddit.com. That's what you'd call a social news website. Basically all that means is that the democratic front page is the best stuff on the web. You find some interesting content, say a TEDTalk, submit it to Reddit, and the community of your peers will vote it up if they like it, vote it down if they don't. And that creates the front page. It's always rising, falling, always changing. About a half million people visit every day. But this isn't about Reddit. This is actually about discovering new things that pop up on the web. Because in the last four years we've seen all kinds of memes, all kinds of trends get born right on our front page.
92 761-764 ZH: 而我相信， 最根本的教意是： 设计其实是 一种交流运动。 它要求我们把我们所有的神志都放到任务中 要求我们运用最佳的思维状态 我们的感知我们的行动 来迎接我们面对的挑战。 而有的时候， 一个小小的样板模型的经验 会帮助我们 将“糟了” 的那一刻变成了“”哈哈”的一刻。 那造成的结果是大不同的。
92 761-764 EN: And the fundamental lesson, I believe, is that design truly is a contact sport. It demands that we bring all of our senses to the task, and that we apply the very best of our thinking, our feeling and our doing to the challenge that we have at hand. And sometimes, a little prototype of this experience is all that it takes to turn us from an "uh-oh" moment to a "ta-da" moment. And that can make a big difference.
93 781-784 ZH: 我演奏了贝多芬小提琴协奏曲的第一乐章。 当我演奏的时候 我知道Nathaniel的眼睛里有一种 奥妙的变化。 好象他抓住了什么隐形的药 象是经历了化学反应，而我的演奏 就是催化剂。 他的狂躁愤怒 也转化成理解 安静的好奇， 和优雅。 
93 781-784 EN: And I played the first movement of the Beethoven Violin Concerto. And as I played, I understood that there was a profound change occurring in Nathaniel's eyes. It was as if he was in the grip of some invisible pharmaceutical, a chemical reaction, for which my playing the music was its catalyst. And Nathaniel's manic rage was transformed into understanding, a quiet curiosity and grace. 
94 823-826 ZH: 此外，大脑里面还有一组神经元， 称作运动神经元，也位于大脑的前半部分， 这组神经元是50年前的发现。 当我们要做某种运动时，这组神经元就会发射信息至相关器官。 例如，假若我这样做，我向前屈伸，然后抓住一只苹果， 一个运动神经元则会发射一组信息。 假如我向前屈伸，并回拉一件物品，另外一个神经元则会 发射另一组信息以控制我的行动。
94 823-826 EN: Now, it turns out there are neurons which are called ordinary motor command neurons in the front of the brain, which have been known for over 50 years. These neurons will fire when a person performs a specific action. For example, if I do that, and reach and grab an apple, a motor command neuron in the front of my brain will fire. If I reach out and pull an object, another neuron will fire, commanding me to pull that object.
95 828-832 ZH: 不过，里佐拉蒂他们发现 这组神经元中包含着另外一组神经元， 大约百分之二十左右。这些神经元是会当我观看他人 行动时，发出与此行动一样的信息。 所以，当我向前抓住某物件时，有个神经元会发出相关信息， 可是若我观看乔做相同的动作时，另一个神经元也会发出相关信息。 这实在是令人震惊。 因为这表明，神经元也会 采纳别人的观点。 几乎就是模仿了他人的动作， 有如虚拟现实仿真。
95 828-832 EN: But what Rizzolatti found was a subset of these neurons, maybe about 20 percent of them, will also fire when I'm looking at somebody else performing the same action. So, here is a neuron that fires when I reach and grab something, but it also fires when I watch Joe reaching and grabbing something. And this is truly astonishing. Because it's as though this neuron is adopting the other person's point of view. It's almost as though it's performing a virtual reality simulation of the other person's action.
96 841-845 ZH: 现在，让我们从人类文化方面入手。 让我们回到七万五千年至十万年前时， 我们来观测下人类进化的过程，结果发现 于七万五千年前左右，一件重大事件影响了人类的发展。 那就是，各种独特的“人类”技巧 突然出现以及迅速传播。这些技巧包括 工具的使用、 火的使用、房屋的出现和语言交流， 以及读取他人心思的能力和 理解他人的行为。 这一切都相对地较快发生。 原始人类的大脑形状大约于四至五十万年前 就已经发育至今人的形状， 不过这些事件则是十万年前才快速地发生。 
96 841-845 EN: Now, let's look at culture, the phenomenon of human culture. If you go back in time about [75,000] to 100,000 years ago, let's look at human evolution, it turns out that something very important happened around 75,000 years ago. And that is, there is a sudden emergence and rapid spread of a number of skills that are unique to human beings like tool use, the use of fire, the use of shelters, and, of course, language, and the ability to read somebody else's mind and interpret that person's behavior. All of that happened relatively quickly. Even though the human brain had achieved its present size almost three or four hundred thousand years ago, 100,000 years ago all of this happened very, very quickly. 
97 850-853 ZH: 若要使一只北极熊进化出一件外衣， 则需要他们经过数千代的传承，或许需要十万年方能得出外衣。 一个人类小孩，则仅需观看他的父母 如何屠杀另一只北极熊， 将其剥皮拆骨，用来制造外衣。 小孩因此可以快速掌握这一技能。 北极熊需要十万年才得以进化出外衣， 人类小孩仅仅要五分钟或者十分钟就学会了。 当他们学会之后，这项技能将以 燎原之势散播于他们的氏族当中。 这就是本源。文化就是模仿 复杂的行为活动，而文明则产于此。
97 850-853 EN: A polar bear, to evolve a coat, will take thousands of generations, maybe 100,000 years. A human being, a child, can just watch its parent kill another polar bear, and skin it and put the skin on its body, fur on the body, and learn it in one step. What the polar bear took 100,000 years to learn, it can learn in five minutes, maybe 10 minutes. And then once it's learned this it spreads in geometric proportion across a population. This is the basis. The imitation of complex skills is what we call culture and is the basis of civilization.
98 1403-1410 ZH: 我想说的是，面临挑战不失为一件好事。 面对逆境，我们不应把它当成障碍绕过它 从而继续我们的生活。 其实，逆境是我们生活的一部分。 我把逆境想象成我自己的影子。 有的时候它看起来很大，有的时候很小 但是它始终在我身边。 当然，我不是试图贬低人们与逆境作斗争的价值和意义。 我们在一生中注定要经历逆境与挑战 我们每个人都是 但是我们所关注的问题并不是你是否要去面对逆境 而是如何去面对它。 所以，我们的责任不是简简单单地让我们关心的人生活在温床里 而是让他们能够形成从容应对逆境的能力。
98 1403-1410 EN: And I'm going to suggest that this is a good thing. Adversity isn't an obstacle that we need to get around in order to resume living our life. It's part of our life. And I tend to think of it like my shadow. Sometimes I see a lot of it, sometimes there's very little, but it's always with me. And, certainly, I'm not trying to diminish the impact, the weight, of a person's struggle. There is adversity and challenge in life, and it's all very real and relative to every single person, but the question isn't whether or not you're going to meet adversity, but how you're going to meet it. So, our responsibility is not simply shielding those we care for from adversity, but preparing them to meet it well.
99 1423-1426 ZH: 今年我们庆祝了达尔文的200周年诞辰 当达尔文在150年前写物种进化论的时候 他阐明了一个关于人类特征的真理。 他说的那句话大概意思就是，能生存下来的物种 往往不是最强壮的，也不是最聪明的 而是最能适应外部环境变化的。 矛盾冲突是创造之母。 达尔文等诸位大师的著作都揭示了这一点 人类生存繁衍的能力 源自人类灵魂经历激烈斗争后的转变 就是这样。
99 1423-1426 EN: This year we celebrate the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin, and it was 150 years ago, when writing about evolution, that Darwin illustrated, I think, a truth about the human character. To paraphrase: It's not the strongest of the species that survives, nor is it the most intelligent that survives; it is the one that is most adaptable to change. Conflict is the genesis of creation. From Darwin's work, amongst others, we can recognize that the human ability to survive and flourish is driven by the struggle of the human spirit through conflict into transformation.
