0 12-20 ZH: 但首先我有两件事需要事先说明。 就两件。 第一，我是加拿大人。第二，我是家中七个孩子里最小的。 在加拿大，我们有很好的医保制度。 那意味著置换髋骨是免费的。 而身为七个小孩中的老幺，任何事情都是最后一个轮到我。 我的髋骨已经折磨了我好多年。 我终于去看了医生，那是免费的。 她将我转诊给骨外科医生，那也是免费的。
0 12-20 EN: But first I have two things to clarify. Just two. First, I'm Canadian. Second, I'm the youngest among seven children in my family. In Canada, we have an excellent medicare system. That means hip arthroplasty is free. However, being the youngest of the seven, my turn always comes at the last for everything. My hip bone had been tortured me for years. I finally saw the doctor. It was free. She transferred me to an orthopedic surgeon. It was also free.
1 48-54 ZH: 医院的小礼品店窗上有个启事 写着“义工招募中”，恩~。 他们马上就雇佣了我。 没有按常规检查背景，不要推荐人。 他們亟需义工，因为医院礼品店里现有义工的平均年龄是75岁。 是的。他们需要一些新鲜血液。 所以很快我就穿上了鲜蓝色的义工背心，有了工作证，89岁的老板对我进行了全面的培训。 我能独当一面了。
1 48-54 EN: On the window of the hospital gift shop, there was a job ad saying "Looking for Volunteers," hmm. They hired me immediately. No background check, no recommenders. They were in dire need of volunteers because the average volunteer age was 75 years old. Yes, they needed some new blood. So I quickly put on my bright blue volunteer vest, got my work permit, and got training from my 89-year-old boss. I could work independently from then on.
2 112-119 ZH: 但结束前我想要问大家一个重要问题。 我们是第一代可以有办法进入探索脑内部的人类， 利用这个科技技术去了解人类的脑部及心灵。 这项技术将在未来发展成什么样子呢？ 刚好一年以前，我接待了一位高官，此人来自美国国防部。 他提道：“在派驻外国的士兵之中，有一千六百人至少丢了一个完整的胳膊。 想象一下，整个胳膊！ 自美国南北战争以来，我们一直都在使用假肢来帮助他们，这种情况一直没有改观。 我们应该为他们做得更多。”
2 112-119 EN: But before we end, I'd like to ask everyone an important question. We are the first generation of humans to have methods to discover the inside of human brains and use this technology to know about the mind. What will this technology become in the future? Exactly one year ago, I got a visit from a senior government official who worked for the US Department of Defense. He asked: "Among all soldiers who were sent to foreign countries, 1,600 of them lost at least a complete arm. Imagine, an entire arm! Ever since the civil war, we have been helping them using prosthetics, and this situation has not changed. We should do more for them."
3 202-209 ZH: 在这张地图上，所有蓝色区域的国家中百分之20的人口年龄大于65岁。 这是现在的情况。 这是我们下一代的情况。 12000年前，人口年龄分布图像一座金字塔，年长者在顶端。 现在，顶端基本上已经平坦了。 预计到2050年时，整个分布图会变成柱状并开始上下颠倒。 发生这种变化的原因是人类的平均寿命长度已经从1840年时翻了一倍，并且还在以每天5小时的速度增加。
3 202-209 EN: On this map, all countries in the blue region have 20 percent of the population with age older than 65. This is the current situation. This is our children's situation. 12,000 years ago, the distribution of population age looked like a pyramid, where the older people are at the top. Nowadays, the top is almost flat. Around the year 2050, the distribution plot will first become a straight column then an inverted pyramid. The reason why this happens is that the average human lifespan has doubled compared to the year 1840, and is still increasing at 5 hours a day.
4 211-218 ZH: 到2050年时，美国会有3千2百万人 年龄大于80岁，如果我们还不采取措施的话，他们中的一半会得老年痴呆症，三百万人会得帕金斯症。 当前，这类神经疾病我们还无法治愈或预防，尽管我们每年要花费掉将近3000亿美元。 这个数字到2050年预计会超过1万亿美元。 老年痴呆症的发生就像是本来应该折叠成正确形状的蛋白质被胡乱揉成一团。 因此我们可以设想：能否制造一种分子胶，把蛋白质固定成它本来的形状。 这样就可以避免在它变形的过程中缠结一团，从而破坏了大面积的脑神经。 更有意思的是：在其他一些影响不同脑功能的神经类疾病 ，也发现了错误折叠纠缠一团的蛋白质。这就是说：原因也许是一致的 也许可以用来治疗很多神经类疾病 并不只是老年痴呆症。 另外，神经疾病还与癌症有密切关系，因为神经疾病患者的各种癌症的发病率都很低。
4 211-218 EN: By the year 2050, the US will have 32 million people with ages older than 80, if we do nothing about it, half of them will have Alzheimer's disease and 3 million people will have Parkinson's disease. Right now, these neurological diseases have no cure or prevention, but still cost us about 300 billion dollars per year. This number is projected to exceed 1 trillion dollars by 2050. Alzheimer's disease is triggered when proteins that should be folded into correct shapes instead are crumpled up into a mess. So we can imagine: can we produce a kind of molecular glue that fixes proteins into their original shape? That prevents them from turning into a mess when folding and causing damage to a wide range of brain neurons. Even more interestingly, in other neurological diseases that affect different brain functions, we also discovered proteins that were folded incorrectly. This means the cause for these diseases might be the same, and this approach can be used to cure many neurological diseases not limited to Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, neurological diseases are linked to cancer, because people with neurological diseases have a very low incidence rate for most cancers.
5 222-227 ZH: 同时，在等待过程中， 可以为自己做些预防。 如果你想减少患帕金森症的机率，咖啡因似乎有些作用，但没人知道为什么。 头部受伤会增加患帕金斯症的机率。 禽流感也一样。 至于预防老年痴呆症，鱼油是可以有效地，降低患老年痴呆症的风险。 另外，还应该注意保持血压，因为慢性高血压是最有可能导致老年痴呆症的。
5 222-227 EN: In the meantime, while waiting, we can use some precaution for ourselves. If you want to decrease your risk of Parkinson's disease, caffeine seems to help, but no one knows why. Having a head injury will increase the chance of Alzheimer's disease. Same with Avian Influenza. As for preventing Alzheimer's disease, fish oil is effective for decreasing the risk. Also, we should care about blood pressure, because chronic high blood pressure is the most likely to cause Alzheimer's disease.
6 236-243 ZH: 让我们先花一分钟的时间来看看伟大的传奇人物列奥纳多·达·芬奇。 我们对他的杰作是再熟悉不过了── 他的画作、他的发明、他的写作。 但我们却不知道他长什么样。 虽然关于他的著作成百上千， 但对于他的样貌，人们仍旧是充满分歧。 即使是这幅著名的肖像画，也无法得到很多艺术史学家的认可。 你们觉得呢？ 这到底是不是列奥纳多·达·芬奇的面孔呢？ 让我们一同寻找答案。
6 236-243 EN: Let's take a minute to look at the great legend Leonardo da Vinci. We are all very familiar with his masterpieces--his paintings, his inventions, his writing. But we don't know what he looks like. Although hundreds of books have been written about him, people are still divided about what he looked like. Even this famous portrait is not recognized by many art historians. What do you think? Is this the face of Leonardo da Vinci? Let's find out together.
7 244-252 ZH: 达·芬奇是一个会画身边各种事物的人。 他画过人物、人体结构、动植物、风景、建筑、江河湖海、各种事物。 但却从来没有画过脸？ 我觉得这有点让人难以置信。 他同时代的画家都画过自画像，就好比你们现在看到的这些。 正面或者是四分之三的侧面像。 所以像达·芬奇这样充满热情的画家，也一定会时不时地画些自画像。 就让我们试着把他们给找出来。 我认为如果我们仔细查阅他所有的作品， 并从中寻找自画像，我们就可以发现他的面孔。 于是我认真查看了他所有的画，700多幅， 从中寻找男士的画像。
7 244-252 EN: Leonardo da Vinci was a man who drew everything around him. He drew people, structures of the human body, plants and animals, scenery, architecture, mountains, rivers, and all kinds of things. However, he never drew a face? I think this is a bit unbelievable. His contemporary artists had drawn self portraits, just like those you are seeing now. Front face or three-quarters. So a passionate artist like Leonardo da Vinci would definitely draw some portraits from time to time. Let’s try find them out. I think if we look closely at all his works and find portraits among them, we can find his face. So I looked at all his paintings in detail, 700 of them, and looked for male portraits among them.
8 274-280 ZH: 问题是，他们是不是依照正确的时间顺序绘制的呢？ 年轻人的画像应该是最先绘制的。 而如果你们看看这些画像创作的年份， 就会发现事实的确如此。 他们是按照正确的时间顺序绘制的。 而达·芬奇在创作这些画像的时候的年龄又是多大呢？和画中人的年龄相符吗？ 是的，完全相符。他在创作这些画像的时候分别是33岁、38岁和63岁。 也就是说，我们现在这里的三幅画像，有可能是同一个人的画像， 平且画中人和达·芬奇创作这些画像时的年龄是一致的。
8 274-280 EN: The problem is, are they drawn with the correct chronological order? A young man’s portrait should be drawn first. And if you look at the age of these paintings, you will find out it’s indeed the case. They are drawn with the correct chronological order. But how old was Leonardo da Vinci when he created those paintings? Is that similar to the age of the man in the painting? Yes, they match exactly. He was 33, 38, and 63 years old, respectively, when he created those paintings. That is to say, the three portraits we are looking at here are likely to be the portrait of the same man, with the same age of Leonardo da Vinci when he drew them.
9 281-290 ZH: 但我们如何知道这画中之人是达·芬奇而不是别人呢？ 我们需要一个可供参考的标准。 这里是唯一一幅被广泛接受的达·芬奇的照片。 是韦罗基奥创作的大卫雕像， 由15岁的达·芬奇当作人体模特。 如果我们把这个雕塑的脸和之前那个音乐家的脸相比较的话，我们就会再次发现之前那些相同的特征。 这个雕像就是参考物，将达·芬奇的身份同那三张脸联系起来。 女士们、先生们，这个故事暂未发表。 由在座的TED观众们对之先睹为快是再为合适不过了。 伟人中的伟人终于有了脸孔。 他就是──列奥纳多·达·芬奇。
9 281-290 EN: But how do we know it is Leonardo da Vinci who is in this painting, not someone else? We need a plausible standard. This is the only widely accepted photograph of Leonardo. It is the statue of David by Verrocchio, posed by 15-year-old Leonardo. If we compare the face of this sculpture with the face of the previously mentioned musician, we will find the similar features again. This statue is the reference that connects Leonardo’s identity with those three faces. Ladies and gentlemen, this story has not been published yet. It is great to let the audience at this TED talk see it first. The icon of icons finally has a face. He is Leonardo da Vinci.
10 319-326 ZH: 我遇到了霍金教授，他说他的梦想是宇宙旅行。 我说，我不能带你到那儿去 但是我可以让你体验失重的状态。 他说，太好了，当然可以。 那么，在地球上体验零重力的唯一方法就是用抛物线飞行来体验。 你坐在飞机上，飞到最高处的时候你大概能体验25秒。 然后下来，你体重会加倍。 然后如此反复。 你最多可以体验八次10分钟的无重力状态，那是NASA一直用来训练他们航天员的办法。
10 319-326 EN: I met Professor Hawking, and he said his dream was traveling in space. I said, I couldn’t take you there, but I could let you experience the loss of gravity. He said, great, absolutely yes. So, the only way to experience zero gravity is by parabolic flight. You sit in an airplane, and experience it for about 25 seconds at the top. And then you go down, your weight doubles, and it repeats. You can experience 8 to 10 minutes of zero gravity in total. That is NASA’s way of training their astronauts.
11 341-350 ZH: 我们带他到了肯尼迪空间中心 进了NASA的车子，然后到了那架飞机上。 和我们同行的还有20位捐款的人们。我们共为儿童慈善基金募集到了十五万美金。他们将跟我们一起飞行。 有一些TED会员。 我们准备好了一切的急救措施。 飞机上还有四位急救室的医生和两位护士。 我们时刻监视着他血液中PO2的含量，他的心跳率还有血压。 我们准备好了一切的应急措施，天知道你可不想伤害到这位世界级的专家。 我们从宇宙飞船着陆点起飞，就是宇宙飞船起飞和降落的地方。 我跟我的搭档 Byron Lichtenberg 小心翼翼地扶着他进入零重力。 到了顶点我们就松手，让他真正体验无重力是什么感觉。
11 341-350 EN: I brought him to the Kennedy Space Center, went into NASA’s car, and entered the airplane. There are 20 donors flying with us. We have raised 150,000 dollars for the children’s charity fund. They would fly with us. Among them were some TED members. We have prepared all emergency precautions. There are four ER doctors and two nurses on the airplane. We are monitoring the PO2 level of his blood, his heartbeat, and his blood pressure. We had prepared everything, god knows you don’t want to hurt this world-level expert. We took off from where the spaceship took off and landed. Me and my partner Byron Lichtenberg carefully helped him into zero gravity. At the top we let go of our hands and let him experience what real zero gravity feels like.
12 366-372 ZH: 现时世界上有十亿儿童， 他们中的一半都没有电力资源，无论是在学校还是在家。 并且在某些国家--如阿富汗-- 75%的小女孩都不会去上学。 我所指的不是她们被学校退学，而是在她们三、四年级的时候--她们根本没去上学。 所以这三年来自从我在TED里演讲，并展示一件产品， 它从一个想法转变成一台真正的手提电脑。 现在，我们已将五十万台手提电脑发放到（世界各地的）儿童手上。 我们还拥有二十五万台手提电脑正准备运送到儿童的手上， 以及二十五万台手提电脑正被订购。 那么，大概算来，这里共有一百万台手提电脑。
12 366-372 EN: Right now there are a billion children in the world, but half of them doesn’t not have access to electricity, no matter at home or at school. In some countries, such as Afghanistan, 75% percent of little girls don't go to school. We don’t mean they are expelled from school, but when they are third or fourth grade, they have no way to go to school. So in the past three years I’ve been talking at TED and showing a product. It went from an idea to a real laptop computer. Now, we have shopped 500,000 laptops to children around the world. We also have 250,000 laptops ready to be shipped, and 250,000 laptops being ordered. That counted, there are around 1 million laptops in total.
13 376-381 ZH: 然后突然地， 这群儿童被手提电脑联系起来。 他们已超越了上一代。 这种变化是绝对具有纪念意义的， 因为这不仅仅是将这个地区开放， 而是将整个地区与世界联系起来了。 因此，他们将会进行交通建设，他们将会有电话， 而且他们还会拥有电视。 但是这群6到12岁的孩子却在用西班牙语和当地语言上网， 所以这群孩子是被资讯伴随着长大， 并且他们打开了一扇通向世界的门窗。 在此之前，他们是被封闭的。
13 376-381 EN: And suddenly, these children are connected by the laptops. They have surpassed the last generation. This chance is definitely meaningful, because it not only means the opening of this region, but also connecting this region with the world. Because of this, they will build roads, they will have telephones, and they will have televisions. But this group of kids from 6 to 12 years of age are using Spanish and local language on the internet, so this group of kids is growing with information, and it opens a window to the world for them. Before this, they were closed up.
14 386-393 ZH: 现在已得到的一些结果是什么？ 其中的一些结果是在每个国家都能观测到的，包括老师都说，他们从来没有如此热爱教学， 以及热爱阅读。这些都是由第三方统计的结果--不是我们--明显飙升。 然而我们所见的最重要的事是，儿童在教导他们的父母。 他们有笔记电脑。他们将它们带回家。 所以当我和三位在当地学校上学的孩子见面时， 这个地方离波哥大有一天的路程， 其中一位孩子带来他的母亲。 而她带她母亲来的原因是，她这位六岁大的儿童正在教她妈妈如何读写。 她妈妈从没有上过小学。 这是一个怎样的倒置， 并且也是一个奇妙的例子，体现了孩子是如何作为变化的推动者。
14 386-393 EN: What are the results we have right now? Some of the results are observable in every country, including the teachers who say that they never loved teaching so much, and reading as well. These are statistics produced by third parties, not us, and the numbers went up dramatically. But the most important thing we see is children teaching their parents. They have laptops. They bring them home. So when I met three students in local schools, which is one day away from Bogota, one kid brought his mother. She brought her mother because this 6-year-old kid is teaching her mother how to read and write. Her mother never went to elementary school. What an inversion this is, and also an amazing example that shows how kids are the propellers for change.
15 394-400 ZH: 因此现在，作为结尾，人们问道， 为什么用手提电脑？ 手提电脑是奢侈品；就譬如给予他们iPod。不。 你们想要给予手提电脑的原因是教育，而不是手提电脑本身。 这是教育项目，而不是手提电脑项目。 他们需要学会学习。然后，就想象一下-- 他们可以拥有，譬如说，一百本书。 在一个村庄里，有一百台手提电脑， 而且每台电脑里都有不同套的一百本书， 那么这个村庄的将会瞬间拥有一万本书。 你和我在小学的时候都没有一万本书。
15 394-400 EN: So now, as the ending, people ask, why laptops? Laptops are luxury, just like giving them iPod. No, you want to give them laptops because of education, but not the laptops themselves. This is an educational program, but not a laptop program. They need to learn how to study. And then, just imagine -- they can have, for example, one hundred books. In a village, there are one hundred laptops, and each laptop has a different hundred books, then this village will instantly have ten thousand books. You and I don’t have ten thousand books in elementary schools.
16 401-411 ZH: 有时学校就在一棵树底下， 并且很多老师都只有小学五年级的受教育水平， 因此你需要创建一个互相学习的合作模型， 而不仅仅是建立更多所学校以及培训更多的教师， 但这也是你无论如何都要做的。 我们再次发起了“送一台，买一台”运动。 去年，我们发起的“送一台，买一台”运动， 并且创造了十万台手提电脑使我们可以将之免费发放出去。 并且作为一台零美元的手提电脑， 我们可以将之送到一些完全无法负担的国家去。 这就是我们所做的。我们去了海地， 去了卢旺达，以及阿富汗， 还有埃塞俄比亚和蒙古。 一些没有市场的地方， 用着饱和，连接性， 低龄化等原则来看待。 而我们可以用之产生一些巨大的数字。 因此让我们这样来想： 就好像为愚昧无知接种疫苗一样。 将手提电脑看作一种疫苗。 你不是为一小部分个体接种疫苗。 而是为整个群体接种疫苗。
16 401-411 EN: Sometimes the school is under a tree, and a lot of teachers only have fifth grade education, so you need a collaborative working model, and not just building more schools and training more teachers, which need to be done anyway. We are having the "buy one, get one free" campaign again. Last year, we initiated the "buy one, get one free" campaign, and created 100,000 laptops that we can give for free. And as a zero-dollar laptop, we can send them to some countries that can not afford it. This is what we’ve done. We went to Haiti, Rwanda, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, and Mongolia. Some places where there’s no market, using principles of saturation, connectivity, low ages, etc. But we can use it to generate some big numbers. So let’s think like this: just like vaccines against ignorance. We view laptops as vaccines. You don’t just vaccinate a small subgroup, but vaccinate the entire group.
17 420-427 ZH: 爸爸在他生命中的最后两年，在生病的状态中， 把他对我的看法都写满在记事本上。 他写下我的长处和短处并提出一些能助我改正的方法，同时亦引用特殊的例子，为我的生活提供反思。 在他离世后，我发现没有人再写信给我了。 书写这门艺术正渐渐地消失。 我平日会用电子邮件，也会一面思考一面打字，但为何要为了新的事物而舍弃旧有的习惯？为何书信和电子邮件不能与我们的生活融合在一起？有一段时间我因为太忙碌而没有坐下来跟我父亲聊聊天。有时，我真的很想换回那几年，然后再以那些时光来换爸爸的一个拥抱。 可是已经太迟了。
17 420-427 EN: My dad in his last two years of his life, when he was sick, wrote all his opinions about me in a notebook. He wrote about my strengths and weaknesses, and provided some ways to improve them, and cited special examples to provide retrospect for my life. When he passed away, I found that no one wrote to me anymore. Writing as an art is dying. We use email everyday, and type while we think, but why give up the old habit because of new things? Why letters and emails can’t be blended together with our lives? There are times when I was too busy to sit down and talk to my father. Sometimes, I really wish to swap back those years, and use those times to hug my dad. But everything is too late now.
18 501-507 ZH: 让我从一个例子开始。 这是一所医院里的一个清洁工的工作说明， 在屏幕上滚动着。 这上面所写的东西都很平常。 这都是一些你能预料得到的事情： 扫地，清理垃圾，倒垃圾筒，进货机柜，等等。 这些事的数量可能有点令人惊讶， 但是这些事的内容却很平常。 但是在这里面，有个现象我想让你们注意： 尽管这个清单很长， 但是里面没有一条是涉及到其他人的。 一个都没有。
18 501-507 EN: Let me begin with an example. This is a work instruction for janitors in a hospital, scrolling on a screen. Everything it writes is normal. These are predictable things: mop the floor, clean the trash, empty the trash can, and restock the cabinets, etc. The number of these things are a bit surprising, but the contents are normal. But among them, there’s a phenomenon I want you to notice: although this is a long list, none of them is related to other people. Not a single one.
19 521-526 ZH: 现实世界的问题常常很暧昧和模糊， 而且问题的内容还常常变换。 一个明智的人就像爵士乐手一样， 看着歌谱演奏的时候并不会完全遵从， 会即兴创作来与当时的情形和周围的人相适宜。 一个明智的人知道如何使用道德技能为一个正确的目的而工作。 为他人服务，而不是应付他人。 最后，也许也是最重要的， 一个明智的人不是天生的，而是后天形成的。 智慧依赖于经验， 但不是依赖于所有的经验。
19 521-526 EN: Real-world problems are often ill-defined and ambiguous, and the context of the problem changes often. A wise person is like a jazz musician-looking at the notes on the page but not following them completely, and improvises as fit to the surrounding situation and people. A wise person knows how to use the skills of morality and work for a correct purpose. To serve other people, not to handle other people. Last but most importantly, a wise person is not born, but made. Wisdom depends on experience, but not just replying on experience.
20 541-545 ZH: 一个父亲和他七岁的儿子在棒球场看底特律虎队的比赛。 儿子给他说想喝点柠檬水，这个父亲就去商店买。 但是店里只有Mike‘s Hard柠檬水， 里面有5%的酒精含量。 这个父亲（一个学者）完全不知道里面含了酒精。 所以他就买了回来。
20 541-545 EN: A father and his seven-year-old son were watching a Detroit Tigers game at the stadium. His son said he wanted some lemonade, so the dad went to buy it at the shop. But the shop only had Mike's Hard Lemonade, which contained 5 percent alcohol. The dad was in academia and didn’t know it contained alcohol, so he bought it back.
21 560-567 ZH: 当事情确实做错了， 我们会用两类工具去弥补。 一类工具就是规则条例。 更多，更好的规则。 我们会寻求的第二类工具就是激励制度。 更多，更好的激励制度。 究竟还有什么其他的东西呢？ 我可以轻易的在对现在的经济危机的响应中发现。 管制，管制再管制。
21 560-567 EN: When something is really done wrong, we use two types of tools to fix it. The first kind of tool is rules. More and better rules. The second kind of tool is incentives. More and better incentives. What else do we have? We can easily find them in our current response to economic crises. Regulation, regulation, and more regulation.
22 589-593 ZH: 掌声。 不要误解我的意思。我们是需要规则的！ 爵士乐手也需要一些谱子， 他们中大部分人还需要看着谱子演奏。 我们需要更多的条款来约束银行家，上帝也知道。 但是太多的规则会让熟练的爵士乐手无法即兴创作。 最终，他们会丢失他们的天赋， 或者更坏，他们完全不再演出。
22 589-593 EN: Applause. Don’t misunderstand me. We need rules! Jazz musicians need some notes, and most of them still need the notes to play. We need more regulations to limit the bankers, God knows that. But too many rules make adept jazz musicians unable to improvise. Finally, they lose their talent, or even worse, they stop playing.
23 601-608 ZH: 大概在15年以前的瑞士， 人们试图决定要在哪里处置核废料。 那时举行了全国性的公民投票。 一些心理学家就四处游走，向一些知识丰富的公民拉票。 他们就问：“你愿意在你的社区里放置核废料吗？”。 吃惊的是，50%的公民说愿意。 他们知道危险性。 他们也知道这将降低他们房产的价值。 但是这些废料总要放到某个地方，而且作为公民也有义务。
23 601-608 EN: In Switzerland about 15 years ago, people were trying to decide where to dispose of the nuclear waste. At that time there was a national referendum. Then some psychologists went around and polled some knowledgeable citizens. They asked: “Are you willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your neighborhood?” Surprisingly, 50 percent of the citizens said yes. They know it would lower the value of their property. But these waste needed to be somewhere, and as citizens they had obligations.
24 678-684 ZH: 他们发现这样一个事实，就是孩子需要学的的最重要的一件事就是人格。 他们需要学习尊重自己。 他们需要学习尊重他们的同学。 他们需要学习尊重他们的老师。 最重要的是，他们需要学习尊重学习。 这是一个理论性的目标。 如果你这么做了，剩下的就像是向下的滑坡一下好走。
24 678-684 EN: They discovered such a truth: the most important thing a child needs to learn is character. They need to learn to respect themselves. They need to learn to respect their classmates. They need to learn to respect their teachers. Most importantly, they need to learn to respect learning. This is a theoretical goal. If you do this, then what’s left is like a smooth downhill ride.
25 686-690 ZH: 奥巴马呼吁美德。 我认为他是对的。 而且我认为我们最需要的美德就是实践的智慧。 因为他让其他的美德-诚实，善良，勇气等等--在正确的时间以正确的方式展现出来。 他还呼吁期望。 也是对的。
25 686-690 EN: Obama advocated for virtue. I think he is right. Also, I think the virtue that we need the most is the wisdom of practicality. Because it makes other virtues -- honesty, kindness, courage, etc. -- shown at the right time in the right way. He also advocated for hope. Also correct.
26 750-757 ZH: 首先我们回顾一下去年的内容。 每个球代表一个国家。 X轴是生育率，每个妇女的育儿数，Y轴是平均寿命年数。 当前数据是1950年，这些是发达国家 这些是发展中国家。 那时世界是由“我们和他们”构成的。 那时候各国差距很大。 后来世界往好的方向上改变了。 这就是变化的过程。
26 750-757 EN: First, let’s look back at last year’s content. Each circle represents a country. The x-axis is fertility rate, which is the number of children per woman. The y-axis is the average lifespan. The current data is 1950, and these are the developed countries, while those are the developing countries. At that time, the world was constructed by "us" and "them." Back then the differences between countries were huge. Then the world changed to be better. This is what happened.
27 819-827 ZH: 回到1920年，先看看日本。 也看看瑞典和美国。 我们将举办一场车赛，选手分别是黄色的福特车（美国） 红色的丰田车（日本） 和棕色的沃尔沃车（瑞典）。 （笑声） 比赛开始。 丰田车启动时的表现很差，福特车驶出了赛道。 沃尔沃表现的很不错。 二战时，丰田车跑到了赛道外，但它很快调整好并在健康水平高于瑞典的一侧运行。 现在它的健康水平已经超过了瑞典。 就在那一年 我把自己的沃尔沃换成了丰田车。
27 819-827 EN: Back in 1920, let's look at Japan first. Also look at Sweden and the USA. We are going to organize a motor race. The candidates are this yellow Ford (USA), the red Toyota (Japan), and the brown Volvo (Sweden). (Laughter) The race is on. The Toyota is bad at the start, and the Ford drives off the race track. Volvo is doing great. During World War II, the Toyota ran off-track but it soon managed to run on the healthier side of Sweden. Now it’s healthier than Sweden. That year, I changed my Volvo to a Toyota car.
28 832-840 ZH: 下面把我的家族史展示给大家看一下 （这张图代表今天的世界）。 Y轴代表健康水平，X轴是收入。 这根红线代表了我的家族。 这里是1830年的瑞典 ，我的曾曾祖母出生于这一年。 1830年的瑞典和今天的塞拉利昂一样。 我的曾祖母生于1863年。 1863年的瑞典和今天的莫桑比克一样。 我的祖母生于1891年。 是她看着我长大的 现在我给大家讲述的不是统计数据 而是我本人的家族历史。
28 832-840 EN: Now I will show my family history (this picture represents today’s world). The y-axis is health level, while the x-axis is income. This red line represents my family. This is Sweden in 1830, where my great-great-grandmother was born. Sweden in 1830 was like today’s Sierra Leone. My great-grandmother was born in 1863. Sweden in 1863 was like today’s Mozambique. My grandmother was born in 1891. She watched me grow as a child. Now I’m not telling you statistics, but my own family history.
29 876-881 ZH: 现在大家所看到的是“美元街”。 所有人都住在这条街上。 上面的数字代表居民每天的收入。 这家人每天收入1美元。 我们驾车往前走，这家人每天收入2-3美元。 继续往前走，看到街上第一个带花园的房子，他们家每天收入10-50美元。
29 876-881 EN: Now people are seeing "Dollar Street." Everyone lives on this street. The numbers above represent their daily income. This family earns 1 dollar per day. We drive a bit forward, and this family earns 2 to 3 dollars per day. Keeping driving forward, we see the first house on the street with a garden, and they earn 10 to 50 dollars per day.
30 896-902 ZH: 我以前的研究并不是现在的IT领域。 我在非洲工作了20年，终日奔走于饥饿的非洲农民中间，我在非洲工作了20年，终日奔走于饥饿的非洲农民中间。 这张照片记录了对“农民需求”的一项研究。 有趣的是，你在照片上分辨不出谁是研究人员。 在贫困地区开展研究的时候，你必须和当地人生活在一起。 如果你在贫困线以下，生存就是你的全部。 必须获得食物。
30 896-902 EN: My past research was not in IT, which is what I’m doing now. I worked 20 years in Africa, in between hungry African farmers. This photograph is a record of research on "farmer’s needs." Interestingly, you can’t tell who is the researcher in the picture. When conducting research in poor areas, you need to live with the local people. If we live under the poverty line, life is all about survival. You need to get food.
31 911-915 ZH: 技术支持可以帮助人们脱贫，而市场对于人们脱贫也很重要。 照片里的妇女很开心，她正把农产品运到市场上去卖。 她很感谢政府的教育投资，她学会了算术。这样在市场里不会被骗。 她也希望孩子健康，这样她可以安心去市场，而不是在家里照顾小孩。 她还希望有基础设施，有一条铺好的道路很重要。
31 911-915 EN: Technology supports people to get out of poverty, and the market is also important for that. The woman in the photo is very happy, because she is selling her products to the market. She is thankful for the government’s investment on education, and she learned arithmetics. Because of that she won’t be cheated in the market. She also hopes her children will be healthy, so she can go to the market with ease instead of taking care of children at home. She also hopes for infrastructure, and a well-paved road is important.
32 916-919 ZH: 另外小额贷款也很有用。 小额贷款帮她买了自行车。 她还需要讯息，何时带何种农产品去市场。 而这些都是我们能实现的。
32 916-919 EN: And small-scale loans also help. Small loans helped her to buy a bicycle. She also needs information, when to go to the market and what to bring. These are what we can achieve.
33 920-923 ZH: 非洲20年的经历让我明白，看上去不可能的事情其实是可能的。 非洲的表现一点也不差。 50年时间里，非洲从中世纪之前的水平发展为100年前的欧洲，并建立起国家系统。 我想说撒哈拉以南非洲地区在过去的50年中，是发展速度最快的地区。
33 920-923 EN: My 20 years of experience in Africa allowed me to see that what looks impossible is actually possible. What Africa is doing is not bad at all. Within 50 years, Africa leaped from pre-medieval level to Europe 100 years ago, and managed to create the systems of a country. I’d like to say that sub-saharan Africa is the fastest developing region in the past 50 years.
34 926-931 ZH: 我们应该更深入了解这个世界。 我的邻居了解200种葡萄酒。 他对这些酒了如指掌。 他知道葡萄的名字，酿酒的温度。 我就知道2种葡萄酒，红的和白的。 （笑声） 但是我邻居就知道2种国家，发达国家和发展中国家。
34 926-931 EN: We should know more about our world. My neighbor knows 200 types of wine. He knows every detail about them. He knows the name of the grape, and the temperature for brewing. I only know two types of wine, red and white. (Laughter) But my neighbor only knows two types of countries, developed and developing.
35 938-943 ZH: 发展的过程是多维的。 每个人都有自己的偏好。 如果你为企业部门工作，你会偏爱小额贷款。 如果你在非政府组织工作 你更喜欢讨论男女平等。 如果你是教师，你会首推联合国教科文组织，等等。 在全球发展的层面，我们必须要有超过我们自我需求的东西。
35 938-943 EN: Development is multidimensional. Everyone has their own preferences. If you work for the private sector, you will prefer small loans. If you work for a non-governmental organization, you will love gender equity. If you are a teacher, you will love UNESCO, etc. On the global development level, we need to care about things more than our own needs.
36 968-974 ZH: 还有文化，我想把文化放在最重要的位置，因为文化给我们的生活带来欢乐，给生活赋予了意义。 看上去不可能的事情是可能实现的。 即使是非洲也能做到。 那些图表已经证明这一点。 这就是今天我的演讲最重要的内容：看上去不可能的事情是可能实现的。 明天的世界会更美好。
36 968-974 EN: And culture. I want to put culture at the most important position because it is culture that brings joy to our lives, and gives life meaning. Seemingly impossible things are possible. Even Africa can do it. These diagrams have proven that. This is the most important point of my talk: seemingly impossible things are possible. Tomorrow’s world will be a better place.
37 1012-1016 ZH: 嗯，我们发现，当你回溯时间， 宇宙会越来越热 越来越致密，越来越单一。 现今为止我不能告诉你我为什么知道这个，不过事实貌似就是如此。 所以，回到宇宙形成初期 我们认为它是非常简单易懂的。 所有繁复的衍生，所有这些美妙的事物--包括人脑--都是一个古老，苍凉而又精密的宇宙的产物。 在宇宙的起点，第一个十亿分之一秒，我们相信，或者我们发现，它是非常纯粹的。
37 1012-1016 EN: Well, we discovered that, when you look back in time, the universe is hotter and hotter, denser and denser, simpler and simpler. Right now we can’t tell you the exact reason why I know this, but this is likely to be the case. So back to the early stage of the universe, we believe it’s simple to be understood. All complex lives, all these beautiful things -- including the human brain -- are the product of an old, cold, and sophisticated universe. At the start of the universe, the first billionth of a second, we believe, or we will discover, is very pure and simple.
38 1153-1156 ZH: 但我对这个项目感兴趣还有部分原因是因为，我开始注意到我们人类已经意识到，有很多物种因为人类无止尽的扩张，将会在地球上灭绝。 但貌似没人对那些，还生存在世上的物种有所关心--它们都还真正地活着。 这里我指的是那些长期与人共处， 并适应了人类生态系统的动物。 这样的动物包括老鼠、蟑螂、乌鸦。 而假如你仔细观察的话，你会发现所有的这类动物都已经对人类社会产生了高度的适应性，并且随着继续与人生活在一起，它们的适应性还加变得更强。
38 1153-1156 EN: But my interest in this program is also partly because I started to notice that we are aware that many species are going extinct on earth due to human’s endless expansion. But it seems like no one is paying attention to the species that are still on earth -- they are still living. I mean the species that have learned to live with people and have adapted to human’s ecological system. These animals include rats, cockroaches, and crows. And if you look closer, you find that these animals have become highly adaptive to human societies, and as they continue to live with people, their adaptiveness has become stronger.
39 1157-1161 ZH: 但反观人类呢，我们只是一直在不断屠杀它们而已。 为了做到这点，人类用喂养的方式来让它们寄生于我们。 我们给了动物们适应新环境的各种理由。 比如：老鼠的生育能力变得超强。 而蟑螂，逮过蟑螂的人都知道， 它们已经不在乎我们的“诱饵”了。
39 1157-1161 EN: But looking at us humans, we just keep killing them all the time. To do this, people breed them to be parasites for us. We gave animals all kinds of reasons to adapt to new environments. For example, rats’ reproductive capabilities have become extremely strong. And for cockroaches, people who have tried to catch cockroaches know that they no longer care about our baits.
40 1167-1174 ZH: 你在地球上任何一处角落--除了两极和南美至南端--都可以见得到乌鸦。 通常它们的栖息地离人类居所不出5公里。 虽然你也许不会想到这一点， 可是它们确确实实一直都这么活在我们身边。 这也不奇怪，我们的地球上人口暴涨， 其中有半数以上居住在城市。 除此之外，90%的人口增长就都发生在城市里。 乌鸦这个种群也在经历同样的发展。 所以鸟类的数量在我们看来将会有一个爆炸型的增长。 这并没有什么奇怪的。
40 1167-1174 EN: At anywhere on earth -- except for the Arctic and the southmost part of South America -- crows can be found. Normally they live within five kilometers from human residence. Although you might have not thought of this, they did just live right next to us all the time. This is not surprising, given that the population on our planet is booming, half of which lives in the city. Besides, 90 percent of population growth happens in the city. The species of crow is also evolving the same way. So in our opinion, the number of birds will also boom. This is not surprising.
41 1194-1197 ZH: 大家也可能听过各种各样的关于乌鸦的趣闻吧。 比如，在瑞典， 那里的乌鸦会趁渔人往冰隙里放钓钩的时候守在一边。 当渔人走了， 它们就飞过去拉起钓钩，吃掉钩上的鱼或钓饵。 这可是搞得那里的渔人很烦恼。
41 1194-1197 EN: People may have heard all kinds of stories about crows. For example, in Sweden, the crows there will wait by the fishermen’s side when they drop the lines through gaps in the ice. When the fishermen leave, they fly over, lift the lines, and eat the fish or the bait on the hook. This makes fishermen there pretty annoyed.
42 1198-1204 ZH: 而在华盛顿大学， 那里的研究员几年前做了一个截然不同的实验。 他们在校园里捉来一些乌鸦， 在实验室里加以标记、称量， 然后把它们放走。 而随后的那个星期， 他们惊喜地发现，那些被放走的乌鸦在校园里一见到那些捉过它们的学生， 就会冲着他们鸣叫， 并在他们周围飞来飞去，给他们的生活增添一些小烦恼。 但之后几个星期还是如此，他们就不再那么惊喜了。 甚至到了下个月，到了夏季学期结束， 到了他们毕业离校了--我相信他们是很高兴地离去的--可当他们偶尔回校来看看时，那些乌鸦还是记得他们。 所以--大家看到了吧，千万别惹乌鸦。
42 1198-1204 EN: At University of Washington, the researchers there did a completely different experiment several years ago. They caught some crows on campus, labeled them in the lab, weighted and measured them, and then let them go. And in the following weeks, they were surprised to find that for those crows which were let go, as soon as they saw the students who caught them, they barked loudly to the students. They flew around the students and made their lives a bit more annoyed. After several weeks it was still like that, although the students were not so surprised. The crows continued to the next month, the end of summer term, and even until the students graduated - I believe they left happily - but when they come back to campus from time to time, the crows still remember them. So, we have learned this, don’t mess with the crows.
43 1208-1212 ZH: 视频：在新的城市环境中， 乌鸦们的谋生技能正在变得越来越娴熟。 这是一座日本城市， 这里的乌鸦发明了一种吃果仁的办法--把坚果丢到车道上。 然后飞走， 等待汽车开过。 之后它们在马路边等待红灯。 然后飞到马路中央安全地衔走那颗果仁。
43 1208-1212 EN: Video: In a new city environment, the living skills of crows have become more adept. In this Japanese city, the crows here invented a way to eat nuts -- they drop the nut on the traffic lanes, and then fly away and wait for cars to drive by. And then they wait for the traffic light to stop, and collect the cracked nuts safely in the middle of the road.
44 1262-1268 ZH: 我们的眼光可以放远一点： 我觉得我们可以训练乌鸦来做其他事。 比如，为何不可以通过训练，让乌鸦给体育馆捡垃圾？ 或者让它们帮助我们从大堆的废弃电子元件里头挑出有用的部件？ 又或者让它们参与搜救工作？ 我这个演讲的主要的一个观点是我们可以寻找到一种与此类动物共存的途径。 我们能找到与其他族群共处的方式 而不仅仅是灭绝它们， 我们可以和它们实现共赢。
44 1262-1268 EN: We should look a bit further: I think we can train crows to do other things. For example, why not train crows to pick up trash in a stadium? Or use them to help us pick out useful parts from piles of discarded electronic components? Or let them help in rescue missions? One of the main points of my talk is that we can find ways to coexist with them. We can find ways to coexist with other species and not just kill them to extinction, and by coexisting we can achieve a win-win.
45 1325-1329 ZH: 当时CNN的人找到我，对我说：赛利格曼教授， 您能不能跟我们谈谈心理学发展的现状？ 我们想采访你在这方面的看法。我便说：好啊。 她说：可是这是CNN，所以你只能很精练地讲一小段话。 我便说：那么我究竟能讲几个字？ 她说：一个字。
45 1325-1329 EN: When people from CNN came to me and said, "Professor Seligman, would you like to talk to us about the current developments of psychology? We’d like to interview you about your thoughts on this." So I said: "Great." And she said, "But this is CNN, so you can only share a small paragraph succinctly." So I said, "How many words can I say then?" She said: "Just one."
46 1344-1350 ZH: 那么，为什么说心理学的现状好呢？ 因为在过去60多年里，心理学建立起了一个疾病模型。 10年前，坐飞机的时候我向邻座自我介绍，告诉他们我的职业，他们会挪得离我远一点。 因为他们认为，也有理由认为，心理学的目标就是找出你哪里有问题，找出谁是疯子。 而现在如果我告诉人们我的职业，他们会想凑近我。 心理学好在哪里？美国国家精神卫生研究所投资300亿美元的效果在哪里，建立疾病模型的效果在哪里，心理学自身的意义好在哪里？就在于60年前所有失调都没办法治疗，人们毫无办法。 而现在其中有14种都可以治疗，其中2种还可以治愈。
46 1344-1350 EN: So, why do we say the current state of psychology is good? Because in the past 60 years, psychology has built a disease model. 10 years ago, on an airplane I introduced myself to my neighboring seat, told him about my job, and they’d move away from me. Because they think, and have the reason to think that the goal of psychology is to find out what problem you have, and find out who’s crazy. But now if I tell people about my job, they will move closer to me. What’s good about psychology, the 30 billion dollar investment made by the NIMH, the use of building disease models, and what psychology actually means? It’s about that 60 years ago, all disorders were not treatable, and there was nothing people could do, but now 14 of them are treatable and two of them are curable.
47 1351-1358 ZH: 另一点是一门科学发展起来了，一门研究精神疾病的科学。 我们发现我们可以对抑郁、酗酒这些模糊的概念进行精确的测量。 我们可以对精神疾病进行分类。 我们可以了解精神疾病的前因后果。 我们可以在很长的时间跨度里观察一些人，比如在基因上对精神分裂症易感的人群，我们想知道后天照顾和先天基因在这其中扮演的角色。我们可以通过对这个精神疾病的实验，分离出导致精神疾病的变量。 最棒的一点是，在过去50年里我们发明了药物疗法和心理疗法。 并且我们可以通过安慰剂对照组实验对这些疗法进行精确的测试，把没用的去掉，留下有用的。 结论是：在过去的60年里，心理学和精神病学研究真的可以为痛苦的人减少痛苦。
47 1351-1358 EN: Another point is that one science has been developed. A science researching on mental illness. We discovered that we can accurately measure blurry concepts such as depression and alcoholism. We can classify mental illnesses. We can understand the cause and effect of mental illnesses. We can monitor people for a very long time period, for example people who are susceptible to schizophrenia, and find out what roles acquired care and inherited genetics play in this. We could also isolate the variables that cause mental illness through this experiment. The best thing is, over the last 50 years, we invented drug treatments and psychological treatments. And through the placebo control group and treated experimental group, we can accurately test these treatments, throw out the useless, and keep the useful. The conclusion is: in the past 60 years, psychological and psychiatric research can really make those who are in pain less miserable.
48 1360-1369 ZH: 但这也带来不好的东西，例如以下三个后果。 第一个是道德上的。心理学家和精神病学家把人当作受害者研究、把人病态化。我们一度认为人在疾病面前无能为力。 我们忘了人们是会做选择、做决定的。 我们忘记了人是可以承担责任的，这是第一个代价。 第二根损失是我们忘记了你们这些人。 我们忘记了要去提高正常人的生活。 我们忘了使正常人更快乐、更充实、更有效率。天才、高智商变成了贬义词。 没有人去研究天才了。 疾病模型的第三个问题是我们急于帮助得病的人，我们匆忙地去修补损伤，我们从没想过要发展干预措施、积极的干预措施 让人们更加快乐。 这是不好的。
48 1360-1369 EN: But it also brought bad things, for example, the following three consequences. First was moral. Psychologists and psychiatrists treated people as victims for research, and continue to victimize people. We once thought people are hopeless in front of diseases. We forgot people can make choices and decisions. We forgot people can take responsibilities. This is the first cost. The second cost is we forgot people like you. We forgot to improve normal people’s lives. We forgot to make normal people happier, more fulfilled, and more productive. Genius and high IQ have become a negative word. No one wants to research geniuses. The third problem with the disease model is we are eager to help those who are sick, and we rush to fix damages, but never think of precautions. Proactive precautions make people happier. This is bad.
49 1371-1376 ZH: 第一是心理学不仅要关注人的弱点 还要关注人的优势。 不仅要致力于修复损伤，还要致力于给人力量。 应该对生活中最好的东西感兴趣。 应该在关注病人的同时努力让正常人以及“天才”们的生活更加美好。 我们希望积极心理学在未来能像过去10年这样，作为一门科学逐渐发展起来，这门科学研究什么让生活变得值得一过。 研究发现我们可以测量不同形式的幸福。
49 1371-1376 EN: First, psychology not only needs to focus on people’s weakness, but also focus on people’s strength. It should not only heal the wounds, but also give people strength. It should pay interest to the best things in life. It should make the lives of normal people and "genius" better while paying attention to patients. We hope positive psychology can be developed as a science just like the past decade. This is a science that studies what makes life worth living. Research has found out we can measure different forms of happiness.